Acknowledgments

 The Wyrd of Stromgard was a product of many people’s 
hard work and accumulated knowledge and I’d like to take this 
opportunity to draw attention 
to some of them for their 
invaluable help.

 Firstly, this project 
literally wouldn’t exist without 
my spouse, Jeremy Toler. His 
laser focus on the end goal 
kept me on track during 
production, his thoughtful 
input gave me perspective in 
drafting, and if it wasn’t for his 
business acumen, The Wyrd of 
Stromgard would likely spend 
the rest of its life as a 
grotesquely rough outline 
rotting on my Google Drive.

 Many people were 
involved in playtesting 
Stromgard’s playbooks and 
settings during various stages 
of wholeness. For their 

endless patience, enthusiasm, and relentless attention to detail 
(and a horrifying number of sixty-four ounce sodas) I would like 
to profusely thank Gary Ahouse, David, Connie, and Trevor 

DuBois, and Jose Mendoza. Not only did you help me refine 
the constantly updating playbooks but you made Stromgard’s 
inaugural campaign everything I had hoped it would be: 
adventurous, dangerous, and the source of several TTRPG War 
Stories.

 This section would be incomplete without a gratuitous 
amount of praise for Vincent Baker and Apocalypse World or 
especially to Adam Koebel and Sage LaTorra, the designers and 
authors of Dungeon World. For a long time, I thought I didn’t 
enjoy tabletop rpgs but Dungeon World rekindled my 
excitement in the medium and their licensing on the text of 
Dungeon World made it possible for The Wyrd of Stromgard to 
be a distributed project in the first place. Additionally, I reached 
out to Adam several times during this whole process and I can’t 
thank him enough for taking the time to address my badgering.

 I also must profusely thank the artists who worked with 
me to complete this monstrosity. Camille Kuo did fully 
rendered paintings of both the cover and the Kickstarter’s GM 
screen in a matter of weeks with minimal direction. She was a 
powerhouse and her immense talent and skill still catches 
people’s eyes whenever they see the game materials. Eli Spencer, 
Stromgard’s interior artist, deserves so, so much praise for her 
contributions. She worked with me for months hashing out the 
character classes, equipment, map, embellishments, etc for this 
book and I strongly recommend you look her up. Her unique 
style gives Stromgard most of its personality and I knew as soon 
as I saw her art that she was my first choice artist for the 
illustration work. Eli, thank you so much for deciphering all 
of my inane notes and for putting so much of yourself into 
Stromgard. ‘Thank you’ barely begins to cover it. Stromgard’s 
unique identity is can almost entirely be attributed to Eli’s 

unique art and I wish there was an easy to share the constant 
stream of praise I hear for the game’s look and aesthetic. Thank 
you so much for sifting through that enormous log of historical 
and fantasy Norse costumes I sent you, I know it was probably 
too much information.

 Also, there are two websites I’d like to specifically praise, 
as they made the frankly alarming amount of research I put into 
Stromgard much easier to manage. Firstly, the Internet Sacred 
Text Archive was an absolute godsend as it contains frequently 
referenced poems and epics from Norse myth and it was where I 
was able to easily hunt down most of the attestations and 
quotations I used to open each chapter. They host tons of other 
content, not just Norse, and I highly suggest you check them 
out the next time you need to read something old and possibly 
translated from a dead language.

 The other is The Vikings of Bjornstad, a reenactment 
group out of the San Francisco area that did very good job on 
an ancient Norse-English dictionary based on accumulated 
translations. I found myself referencing their dictionary often, 
especially when I needed to make up words that sounded Norse 
and still held some translatable integrity. While they’re not specifically 
an academic group, they really went about creating their 
content with the same meticulous attention to detail and for 
that I both thank and applaud these weekend anthropologists 
and historians.

 Of course if you’re reading this then you bought my 
book, hopefully. Thank you! The Wyrd of Stromgard was a 
labor of love and I hope that you enjoy it.

 It goes without saying that our two-hundred and four 
backers (plus the non-Kickstarter preorders) literally carried The 
Wyrd of Stromgard from small scale, PDF release (if that) to 
existing in the real world as a tangible book. From both of us, 
we cannot thank them deeply enough for supporting us as indie 
creators and taking a chance on Stromgard’s potential. We hope 
that they’ll continue supporting small studios and independent 
creators!

 In particular, many of our backers submitted magical 
weapons and items, as well as adventure front prompts as part 
of our crowdfunding campaign. We had so many outstanding 
and original ideas that we put it to a community poll to choose 
the ‘finalists’. I’d like to thank the community for submitting 
so many amazing ideas and especially thank those who created 
the most popular of the bunch- specifically Logan “Dogface701” 
Collins for the Shard of Bifrost weapon and the inspiration to 
flesh out In the Shadows of Titans as one of the additional 
adventures. Espen Andre Henriksen (aka Essenrik) dreamt up 
the intimidating Tooth of Jörmungandr, a personal favorite and 
immediately a hit in our polls! Also Alexander R. Corbett 
deserves so much thanks for submitting the idea of Undyne’s 
Haft, which I was very excited to add and used it in one of my 
personal campaigns. Also, a profuse thank you to Phillip 
McGregor, who posesses a wealth of knowledge on historical 
arms and armor and who very kindly offered me some assistance 
in dating Stromgard's equipment.

Credits

Literature

“The Poetic Edda.” Internet Sacred Text Archive, June-Oct 
2018, www.sacred-texts.com/neu/poe/index.htm.

 I referenced many sections of the Poetic Edda, all of which 
can be read in their entirety on the Internet Sacred Text 
Archive. Attestations were pulled from the following poems 
within the Poetic Edda itself:

 Voluspo

 Hovamol

 Vafthruthnismol

 Helgakvitha Hundingsbana I

 Helgakvitha Hundingsbana II

“The Prose Edda (of Snorri Sturluson).” Internet Sacred Text 
Archive, June-Oct 2018, www.sacred-texts.com/neu/pre/ 
index.htm.

 I also referenced the Prose Edda many times, pulling 
another large chunk of quotations and attestations from it and 
the following poems contained within:

 Gylfaginning

 Skáldskaparmal

References

“Heimskringla: The Chronicle of the Kings of Norway (by 
Snorri Sturluson).” Internet Sacred Text Archive, June- 
Oct 2018, www.sacred-texts.com/neu/heim/index.htm.

“Heimskringla or The Chronicle of the Kings of Norway.” 
The Ynglinga Saga. The Medieval & Classical Literature 
Library. Oct 2018, mcllibrary.org/Heimskringla/ 
ynglinga.html 

“The Story of Egil Skallagrimsson (Egil’s Saga).” 
Arinbjarnarkviða. Internet Sacred Text Archive, June-Oct 
2018, www.sacred-texts.com/neu/egil/index.htm

Beowulf. Translated by R. M. Liuzza, Broadview Press, 1999.

“Haraldskvæði (Hrafnsmál),” Heimskingla. Oct 2018, 
heimskringla.no/wiki/Harldskvæði(Hrafnsmál)_(B1) 

“Anglo-Saxon Chronicle: Peterborough (/Laud) 

 Manuscript.” Yale V2 Vault Portal, Sept 2018, http:// 
classesv2.yale.edu/access/content/user/haw6/Vikings/ 
AS%20Chronicle%20Peterborough%20MS.html

“The Voiage and Travayle of Sir John Maundeville Knight,” 
Gutenberg Archive, Oct 2018, www.gutenberg.org

Skarpåker Stone. Runemaster unknown. Early 11th century. 
Skarpåker, Nyköping, Sörmland, Sweden. Wikipedia, 
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skarpåker_Stone. Accessed Sept 
2018.

Hednalagen. The Pagan Law. Author Unkown. 13th century. 
Västergötland, Sweden. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holmgang 
Accessed Sept 2018.

Carpenter, Humphrey and Tolkien, Christopher. “The Letters 
of J. R. R. Tolkien”. Houghton Mifflin Hardcourt 2000

Culture and History

“The Vikings of Bjornstad: Old Norse Dictionary”. The Vikings 
of Bjornstad. Jan 2018-Oct 2018, www.vikingsofbjorns 
tad.com/Old_Norse_Dictionary_E2N.shtm

“Viking-Age History”, Hurstwic. Oct 2018, hurstwic.com/ 
history/text/history.htm

“Viking Ships”, Avaldsnes. Sept 2018. avaldsnes.info/en/viking/ 
vikingskip/

“The Five Viking Ships”, Vikingeskibs Museet. Oct 2018, 
www.vikingeskibsmuseet.dk/en/visit-the-museum/ 
exhibitions/the-five-viking-ships/

“Old Arabic Texts Describe Dirty Vikings”, Science Nordic, 
Oct 2018, sciencenordic.com/old-arabic-texts- 
describe-dirty-vikings

Linguistics

“Runes.” Wikimedia Commons. Oct 2018, commons.

 wikimedia.org/wiki/Runes. 

“Old Norse Grammar/Alphabet and Pronunciation,” Wiki 
books. Oct 2018, en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Old_ Norse/ 
Grammar/Alphabet_and_Pronunciation

Wikipedia: The Free Encyclopedia. Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. 
Web. Jan-Oct. 2018.

 Wikipedia was naturally a great stepping stone into deeper 
research for specific areas of Stromgard, but the following articles 
were ones I referred to the most:

 Runes

 Elder Furthark

 Greek Alphabet (Euboean variant)

 Younger Furthark

 Anglo-Saxon futhorc

 Proto-Norse

 Wiligut Runes

 Nazi Symbolism re: Runes

 Runestones
