Adventure Front

What will be after heaven and earth and the whole world are burned?

Gylfaginning, Prose Edda

 Using campaign fronts in your games is not only easy and 
super convenient, it’s still one hundred percent feasible to improvise 
a lot as you go on. The Wyrd of Stromgard itself functions 
as a giant sandbox to play in and its campaign fronts utilize a lot 
of the same tools plus the addition of narrative impetus elements 
to help provide the GM with interesting hooks to immediately 
implement. This campaign is meant to be a longer running plot- 
think of it in terms of a long form television series with four 
seasons. Each season has its own dangers and resolutions but 
will feed into the overarching goals. How long it will take you 
to play through the fronts depends mostly on how ‘broad stroke’ 
or ‘meticulous’ your PCs tend to be and obviously any content 
you add yourself or tangents you explore could significantly add 
to the number of sessions it takes to get through. Premade 
campaign fronts are a great outline for major plots.

 The included campaign front here will have PCs decoding 
and responding the to the disasters that foretell the end of the 
world. Ragnarök is, literally, the fate of the gods as war breaks 
loose upon the World Tree and various catastrophes lay waste 
to all the races and cultures caught in between the clash of gods 
and Jötnar. This apocalyptic campaign has the destruction of the 
physical worlds as well as the murder of the gods for narratives 
stakes and the intensity ramps quickly. Dangers two, three, and
four culminate with monsters so fierce and so powerful they are 
statless, and will need to be overcome with wits and preparation, 
not brute strength and mundane weapons. The point of 
this particular campaign front is to offer the players an immense 
challenge and a crazy amount of dramatic risk. So keep the 
stakes high and see what they can come up with.

Signs of Ragnarök

Surtr moves from the south

with the scathe of branches

there shines from his sword

the sun of Gods of the Slain.

Völuspá, Poetic Edda

At the dawn of the world...

 The seers told it to Odin long ago, when he called upon 
the völva to rise from the land of the dead to deliver unto him 
her wisdom. Obliging, the völva delivered a prophecy then and 
revealed to Odin the burning of Yggdrasil and the slaying of the 
gods. Midgard and the lower realms would be drowned in floodwaters 
before being razed by the hellfires of Muspelheim. The 
völva warned of Loki’s loyalties, the death of Baldr, the rising 
power and anger of the Jötnar, of Thor’s end succumbing to the 
Midgard Serpent, and of even Odin’s death in the jaws of Fenrir. 
Odin understood the gravity of what the völva told him but he 
was determined to meet his fate ready to resist his enemies.

 From that point on, Odin ordered the Valkyries to bring 
all the slain warriors of Midgard who had honor and valor to 
reside in Valhalla until the time comes for them to fight once 
again, but now in Odin’s personal retinue. He asked the völva 
how he would know that the time for ice and fire was upon him 
and she responded:

Endless winter will blast the world-ash,

 Hunger and disease will fester,

 Mead and sweet fruit only a dream.

 Then rampant bloodshed will soak the land,

 Enemies everywhere but in the open

 Retaliation sets the cycle

 No duels, no honor,

 Just a wolf and a knife in the ribs.

 Then the angry tides shall rise

 To cleanse the realms of congealing blood.

 The churn will engulf everything

 And a serpent’s strike will shake mountains

 Odin listened to this very seriously, believing the völva 
both honest and speaking truth. He committed the verses to his 
vast memory, vowing to always be wary of such events so that 
he could meet the fate of the gods head on and without fear. As 
he stood to leave, the völva stopped him, throwing out her hand 
and meeting his eye. She shook her head and warned of more. 
When Odin’s mighty brow furrowed, she continued:

 These omens be not random chance

 They are keys to the sleeping fire’s cage,

 And once it is open, Yggdrasil, the gods,

 Elves, and dwarves, and men, and even Jötnar,

 Will burn.

 With each of Surt’s steps, he will level the world,

 He will climb to Midgard and burn up the oceans,

Jötunheim will a ring of fire be

 When he demands access to the Bifrost

 The dwarves, brave and loyal as they may be,

 Cannot keep him out.

 Bright Freyr and his children the Alfir

 Will make their last stand in Vanaheim

 There is no victory against a walking nightmare

 
 And when they are dead

 Nothing will stand between it and Asgard

 Odin knew what the last verse described and knew then 
that the völva was accurate. Nothing on this or any other world 
could stand against the fire giant currently sealed away in 
Muspelheim. The old god vowed then to be vigilant and watch 
for signs of judgment. 

 But that was ages ago Whole peoples formed and 
dispersed many times since the völva’s prophecy. And 

certainly, the worthy are still said to be ushered into Valhalla to 
await Odin’s battle-cry but the ways of the 
most ancient of gods is hazy and nearly lost 
to lesser immortals and ignorant mortals. 
No one but Odin and that völva know the 
prophecy in its entirety and no one can 
say if it still causes the venerable god quiet 
anxiety now or if he has let it pass from his 
mind like a snowflake in an infinite 
blizzard. But things have already been set 
in motion whether he knows it or not.

Danger One:

Endless Winter

Much have I fared, much have I found,

Much have I got of the gods:

What shall live of mankind when at last there comes

The mighty winter to men?

 Vafþrúðnismál, Poetic Edda

 Harsh winters in the realm of Stromgard are commonplace 
and there are sometimes seasons that stretch on for longer 
than normal. The endless winter of Ragnarök, however, is something 
else entirely. It is one of latent fears of Midgardians- 
losing a war of attrition against a winter that stretches on, for 
food stores to dry up and for heavy snows to entrap and crush, 
to cut Stromgard off from the seas and rest of the world. As 
foretold by the völva, a winter that stretches on with no sign of 
spring is the first key to the gate of Muspelheim.

Danger One: Endless Winter

Arcane enemies, ambitious organization

Impulse

 To cast a spell over time and space

 Learn forbidden knowledge

 Claim arcane resources

Major Forces 

 Cult of the Iceblooded (organized sect of renegade 

 elementalist mages seeking to upend the world)

 Warmongering Jötnar

Impending Doom 

 Unleashing a never-ending blizzard is one of the 

 requirements to unseal Muspelheim and free Surt.

Grim Portents

 The cultists decide that aiding the Jötnar looking to 
overthrow the gods will provide them with the best 
chance of recovering an artifact called the Eye of 
the Storm.

 The Jötnar accept the cultists’ raw arcane force in 
exchange for the knowledge of their artifact’s 
location and confirmation that it is needed to 
unseal Surt.

 The cultists begin preparations to recover and use 
the Eye of the Storm by amassing arcane 
resources to help amplify the spell from all over 
Stromgard.

 The cultists successfully release storms that rages 
across the land incessantly.

The cultists and Jötnar begin planning to recruit the 
moon elves, whose loyalties are largely unknown.

Starter Hooks

Ask your players these questions just before you begin session

 Chaos and order are the chief opposing forces of 
existence. Which do you favor?

 Many Jötnar are judged on the relatively small 

 population that openly defies the gods. Is this fair?

 Are the gods all-powerful?

 Is your fate malleable or should you meet it head on?

 Someone you know was targeted by the Cult of 
the Iceblooded. Why were they so important to you and 
what did the cultists want with them?

Narrative Hooks

For use if the story needs extra inspiration

 Magical tools of arcane amplification start 

 disappearing or are outright stolen.

 A rise in incidents involving renegade or rogue mages 
causing trouble.

 Unusual and violent weather.

 A prominent arcanist is assassinated and his personal 
research stolen.

 The barrow of a famous wizard-king is ransacked.

 Huge runestones that mention the Eye of the Storm are 
pulled from the earth and vanished.

Suspicious figures begin pressing the knowledgeable 
about the artifact.

 Jötnar have unfathomably ancient and vast knowledge 
of all things magical. They also keep many secrets.

 A hushed accord is made by candlelight in secret 
Weighty secrets that could change the world as we know 
it.

 An icy blue teardrop of smoky glass that radiates energy 
and biting cold- The Eye of the Storm

 Clouds build overhead and all hell breaks loose as the 
storm compounds out of control.

Special Moves

Situation-specific moves for this campaign. Create more as you need 
for specific things not already covered by Dungeon World moves.

Resist Thrall

When you hold the Eye of the Storm in your hand, roll +INT. 
On a 10+ you escape the thrall of this powerful artifact. On a 
7-9 you badly desire to use this item but you cannot tell if the 
thrall influencing you or if it is your own desire. On a miss, 
you are influenced to do something that carries immense consequences.


Arcane Amplification

When you use an item intended to amplify magical energy, add 
+1 to any Cast a Spell/magical move roll per arcane amplifier 
in your possession. The item you use as an amplifier weakens 
as you use it in this manner, the GM will let you know how, if 
necessary.

Forge Ahead

When you try to brave a blizzard, roll +CON. On a 10+ you 
manage to trudge to shelter, though your travel time is increased 
by half. On a 7-9, you’re slowed down substantially, doubling 
the time it takes you to find shelter. On a miss you become 
hopelessly lost and spend 1D6 days outside. Spend a ration for 
each and find a way to stay warm or lose 1D4 hit points per 
night. You cannot make camp until you find shelter.

Monsters

Iceblood Cultist Magical, Organized, Hoarder

Ice Spear (1D8 damage) 10HP/2ARM

Thunder Breath (1D8 damage)+(Forceful)

Close, Reach

The Cult of the Iceblooded is a loose order of mages and wizards 
who wish to send the world into chaos, mostly to spite the gods. 
They relentlessly seek out anything that can amplify their power 
as they search for the artifact that will let them call an unending 
blizzard to Midgard- they’re willing to do whatever it takes to get 
their hands on it.

Instinct:

 Undermine divine authority

Moves:

 Summon reinforcements

 Seek magical artifacts

 Enhance own magical ability

Items

Eye of the Storm 1 weight

A glass teardrop with a long delicate tail. The material is smoky 
and tinged a pale blue. It radiates an intense cold and a voice 
seems to call out from inside it.

Arcane Amplifier 1-3 weight (varies) Arcane 
Amplifiers can be created out of any number of objects (hence 
their variable weight). Powerful wizards create these objects to 
serve as a kind of attunement field when casting, greatly increasing 
the potency of their spells. When an amplifier is used to 
boost a spell, the item is used up and destroyed in the process.

Danger Two:

War Rages On

...All over the world there shall be mighty battles. In that time 
brothers shall slay each other for greed’s sake, and none shall spare 
father or son...

Gylfaginning, Prose Edda

 There’s nothing the agents of anarchy and chaos enjoy 
more than eschewing convention in a way that turns the world 
on its head. Through deception, trickery, and manipulation, 
old fears and bad blood can be easily preyed upon. Paranoia is a 
powerful stimulant and prone to making 
mortals act out in fury and frustration 
at relatively little provocation. To Surt- 
and those who seek to free him- chaos is 
the true nature of the world. The gods 
cannot impose order and authority over 
something that is by nature untamable, 
and rampant destruction will prove it. 
The wolf Fenrir will prove it, destined as 
he is to be the one who murders Odin 
should he break free of his chains.

Danger Two: War Rages On

Ambitious Organization, Arcane Enemies

Impulse

 To cast a spell over time and space

 Learn forbidden knowledge

 Claim arcane resources

Major Forces 

 Cult of the Iceblooded

 Warmongering Jötnar

 Revenge-driven Nithfir/Moon Elves

 Fenrir

Impending Doom 

 Widespread chaos razes the land as fighting and skirmishes 
break out, treaties and accords violated, and efforts at peace 
are thwarted. As more people are dragged into the confusion, 
the second seal on Surt’s prison is broken. Fenrir escapes.

Grim Portents

 The cultists and Jötnar make contact with the Nithfir on 
Myrkheim. They convince the long-isolated moon elves that 
now is the time for vengeance. The Nithfir are won over and 
help the cultists and Jötnar destroy a prominent sacred site and 
frame it on a group of innocent mortals.

 The combined forces of Jötnar, cultists, and Nithfir continue 
to assault sacred locations and pious villages- all disguised 

as other parties to create confusion, paranoia, and anger. A 
once-peaceful steading is brought to full violence against a long 
time ally in a misunderstanding.

 A once pious steading deliberately destroys a monument 
to the gods in a deliberate and open display of disrespect and 
defiance- they are unaware that events have been intentionally 
orchestrated.

 
 Furious, many of the gods retaliate and even more chaos 
is sown. Crops fail, livestock dies, diseases take hold, monsters 
flourish, and the dead start to rise from their barrows.

 The smell of so much pain and blood drives Fenrir mad 
with frenzy and the monstrous wolf escapes his fetters to wreak 
havoc.

Starter Hooks

Ask your players these questions just before you begin session

 An old relative used to tell you legends of the Moon 
Elves, the Nithfir. What were they usually about?

 Have you ever traveled to another plane before?

 Myrkheim is an extremely isolated Realm but what 
rumors about it have gained traction?

 Given their history and distaste for the Aesir, is an at 
tempt at compromise worth trying to pursue with the 
Nithfir? Or is it a lost cause?

 Do you hold on to the grudges of your forebearers? Or is 
your agenda fully your own?

Is there such a thing as an insurmountable foe, unfellable 
by anyone?

Narrative Hooks

For use on the fly

 A hazy portal, hurriedly opened

 A secret emissary breathlessly offers respect

 The halls of Myrkheim rise like towers of pearl and 
obsidian towards the heavy-hanging moon

 The emissary politely cuts open old wounds and high - 
lights old pains

 The council cannot help but be affected by the past

 A critical success that will deal a hard blow

 Enemies, united against you

 Deceit and lies fuel violence and hatred

 Hysteria rises like a fever

 Angry and hurt, people do not see that they are 

 misled

 “Self defense” and “keeping the peace” excuse acts of 
cold violence

 Righteous fury as lesser gods punish the world for 
their insolence

 Famine and sickness rise even faster, natural disasters 
claim cities

 A monstrous wolf, manacled, paces furiously as the 
smell of blood makes its eyes dilate with hunger.

 A sword sticks from its salivating mouth

 Odin’s destiny lies in the beast’s jaws 

 The second lock opens

Special Moves

Planar Portal

When you attempt to use a planar portal without permission, 
roll +DEX to avoid the gaze of the watchers manning the road. 
On a 10+ you evade their attention with ease. On a 7-9, you 
can avoid their eyes only by leaving the main road, making it 
much easier to get lost. On a miss, a Path Guardian violently 
confronts you.

Sword in the Maw

When you pull the sword out from Fenrir’s jaw, roll +STR. 
On a 10+ the sword comes loose in your hands and bursts into 
divine light. On a 7-9 the sword cuts deeply into the wolf’s 
mouth, causing him to go into a pained frenzy. On a miss, the 
blade comes free but you are thrown back and knocked prone, 
the divine blade landing elsewhere.

Political Pawns

When you try to quell an angry mob by exposing the conspiracy 
that’s driving them, have all present members of the party roll 
+CHA (including any pertinent bonuses). A majority of 10+ 
rolls amongst the party results in the crowd coming to their 
senses. They are willing to risk their lives at the party’s 
command in an effort to undermine the conspirators who 
manipulated them. A majority of partial successes causes the 
mob to disperse, regarding the party with some wariness but 
little malice. A majority of misses causes the crowd to turn into 
a violent riot targeting the party who are hellbent on causing 
harm.

Monsters

Moon Elf Assassin Divine, Planar, Ancient

Backhanded Stab (1D10+4 Piercing) 8HP/3ARM

Throwing Dagger (1D8 + Ignores Armor)

Close, Reach, Near

Nithfir assassins recruited to incite chaos among mortals. They 
are offensively formidable and carry an array of 
debilitating poisons with them, along with a slew of other devious 
items.

Instinct:

 Undermine divine authority

 Exact vengeance

Moves:

 Deceit - Frame someone

 Disguise Self

 Move Silently

 Vanish

Mortal Vigilante Organized, Cautious

Trusty Axe (1D8+4 damage) 10HP/2ARM

Close

The world is in chaos and many warriors are taking it amongst 
themselves to quell the madness, though their task is made 
almost impossible by the true nature of the attacks. Vigilantes 
now roam the roads, looking to hunt down anyone who could 
be guilty, or scapegoated, to bring a little peace back into the 
world. These warriors typically target nonhuman races but will 
make due with any target they think they can take down.

Instinct:

 Restore Order

 Be perceived as just

Moves: 

 Scapegoat someone to placate a crowd

Path Guardian Large, Organized, Divine, Planar

Bronze Fist (1D10+3 damage + Forceful) 12HP/4ARM

Close, Reach

Bifrost Guardians are towering metallic automatons that answer
to Heimdallr and the other Aesir. While not truly sentient, they 
can think and act above their master’s bidding to some simple 
degree. They rarely need to, however, as once they are set upon 
intruders their only goal is to eradicate them.

Instinct:

 Obey Orders from Asgard

 Exterminate Trespassers

Moves:

 Bullrush

 Relentlessly pursue

 Eject interlopers
 

Fenrir, World Eater Huge, Divine, Planar

Fenrir is a hulking, monstrous wolf that had to be chained up by 
the gods to preventing it from eating the earth and cosmos. This 
being is no mere beast, however. It is intelligent and cunning 
(like its father, Loki) and its physical form is powerful enough 
to destroy Yggdrasil itself. Standing against Fenrir is standing 
against destruction incarnate. Destined to devour Odin during 
Ragnarök, at the dawn of the world, even the gods didn’t know 
how to control it. Thanks to Dvergar ingenuity, however, and a 
divine sword, the beast remains sealed. For now.

Instinct:

 Destroy life, steadings, and the earth itself

 Attack Asgard

Moves:

 Consume planar fabric

 Bargain and deceive

Items

Valdrbane 2 weight

This sword was thrust into Fenrir’s jaw by the gods to force his 
mouth shut, rendering him incapable of fully engulfing the 
world. It’s heavy blade is imbued with the desire to smite evil 
and restore order to a chaotic world. Against any planar or 
divine force, this sword does real damage but at great taxation of 
the wielder’s body.

WYRD OF STROMGARD

Danger Three:

Dark Waters Rise

When the sea shall gush forth upon the land, because the Midgard 
Serpent stirs in giant wrath and advances up onto the land.

Gylfaginning, Prose Edda

 The threat of flood and engulfing tides is something that 
strikes fear into most and for sailors and warriors who have spent 
time on the sea, know one knows better how destructive of a 
force the tides can be. Not only is it absolutely infinite in crushing 
weight and cold blackness, it houses a million horrors in its 
depths, stealthy and huge and hideous, ready to sink claws and 
teeth into any land walker that fails to treat the ocean with the 
fear and respect it is due. Nothing, however, is more hideous 
or huge in the wide ocean waters as Jörmungandr, the Midgard 
Serpent. Sensing its brother’s rampage, Jörmungandr rises from 
the depth to finish what Fenrir started, and enact his destiny of 
killing Thor. The fate of mortals seemingly sealed, Surt’s prison 
can no longer hold him.

Danger Three: Dark Waters Rise

Planar Forces

Impulse

 To give dreams of upcoming destruction

 To attack indirectly

 Cause tidal waves

Major Forces 

 Jörmungandr, the brother of Fenrir

Impending Doom 

 As war ravages the land, Jörmungandr awakens and adds 
its fury to Fenrir’s strength. This breaks the third and final seal 
on Surt’s prison in Muspelheim.

Grim Portents

 The sensitive begin having prophetic dreams that the 
worst is yet to come, that Ragnarök is about to 
be fully realized.
 

 Storms dominate the skies, growing in intensity and 
destructive power.

 The prophetic dreams reveal that Surt’s last lock 
opens when Jörmungandr rises from the sea. 


 The fire giant will destroy the world.

 
 Jörmungandr levies an attack against the land, 
bringing the hordes of the ocean with him. 

Starter Hooks

Ask your players some of these questions just before you begin session

 What haunts your nightmares?

 Have you spent extended periods at sea? What is the 
most dangerous thing out there, in your experience?

 The masses are no doubt panicked by the weather 

 and Fenrir, but have you seen mass hysteria yet at the 
thought of this getting worse?

 Where is Odin during all of this?

Narrative Hooks

For use on the fly

 Black sky over black, churning water

 The smell of low tide, even far from the sea

 Feverish nightmares plague the attuned

 Vague impressions of a hulking monstrosity

 A cold, dark expanse full of pale, sharp-clawed horrors

 Walls of rushing, churning water washing through towns

 Muddy flood waters washing away homes and roads 
and people

 Desolation and a wake of destruction

 Forests flattened

 Coastlines reformed and unfamiliar

 A titanic form rises from the depths

 Coils and coils of thick black serpent undulate in the water

 Thor is destined to die by this beast

 The weather becomes intense and even more 

 destructive

 The final lock opens and somewhere a fire like the 
sun ignites with fury

Special Moves

Prophetic Dream

When you have a prophetic nightmare, describe it to the GM 
and roll +WIS. On a 10+ you have a +1 against something 
threatening from your dream, your choice. On a 7-9 the GM 
will choose something from your dream and give you a vague 
impression on when you will encounter it. On a failure, take a 
-1 forward against something terrifying from your vision. GM’s 
choice.

Rough Waters

When you attempt to sail a churning sea roll +STR. On a 10+ 
pick 2, on a 7-9 pick 1.

 The ship’s sails remain intact

 You take on little water

 You retain your bearings

 You don’t lose any supplies or cargo

Tidal Push

When you flee a rising tide, debris, mud, and water as it forms a 
quickly-moving wall behind you, continue moving without stopping 
to stay head of the deluge for 1D100 miles. If you get caught in the swell, roll +DEX to escape with a -2 modifier.

Monsters

Dream Feeder Tiny, Magical, Terrifying

Mind Melt (1D6 dmg + causes INT debility) 8HP/4ARM

Close

Dream Feeders come from another plane, invading Midgard as 
the sensitive begin having prophetic dreams. The mix of reality 
and dream haze is irresistible to these small, millipede like creatures. 
At night, they burrow into a sleeping host’s facial orifice 
and latch onto the brain, feeding off its activity until the victim 
goes catatonic.

Instincts:

 Feed on high quality dreams

Render prey brainless.

Moves:

 Devour target’s mind

 Sneak up on prey

Mudwalkers Small, Horde

Entangle (1D6+2 Damage)+(Ignores Armor) 5HP/0ARM

Close

Mudwalkers are submarine, snake-like insectoids with long 
tentacle clusters that serve as their primary mode of locomotion. 
They are usually bottom feeders but during rough tides 
they rise to the surface and search for prey by infesting muddy, 
debris clogged flood waters. When alerted to the movements of 
nearby prey- drowning animals, struggling humans, etc- Mudwalkers 
slide stealthily through the bracken and surround their 
prey before plunging in for the attack. Even in frenzied swarms, 
Mudwalkers prioritize incapacitation of their prey and will try to 
wrap around the body to immobilize it before latching onto it 
and draining its fluids.

Instinct:

 Go into a feeding frenzy

Moves:

 Overwhelm a target

 Remain undetected in bracken

Danger Four: Hellfire

Surtr fares from the south with switch-eating flame,

On his sword shimmers the sun of the War-Gods;

The rock-crags crash; the fiends are reeling;

Heroes tread Hel-way; heaven is cloven.

Gylfaginning, Prose Edda

 The ultimate force of destruction to Midgard and all the 
other Realms of Yggdrasil. Surt is a planar force made of pure 
hellfire and who carries a sword as bright as the sun. While he 
will rain destruction upon those who freed him, Surt’s rampage 
is focused on destroying the gods, delivering them to their fate 
for failing to bring order to the worlds. Surt’s goal is destruction 
and pain, and the broken worlds he rages through won’t be able 
to muster meaningful resistance without a miracle.

Danger Four: Dark Waters Rise

Planar Forces, Hordes

Impulse

 Reveal the chaotic nature of the world

 Expose the weakness of the gods

 Attack bastions of civilization directly

 Overwhelm

Major Forces

 Surt and his hordes

Impending Doom

 Surt, chaos and destruction incarnate, walks the 
land and leaves desolation in his wake. The world meets its fate.

Grim Portents

 Mountains are leveled and forests burn in Surt’s foot 
steps.

 Surt assaults the dwarves, seeking entry to Asgard. 


 They are his first target. At their defeat he forces a 
planar gate open and moves towards Asgard.

 Surt destroys the Bifrost behind him, razing the 
realms as he goes. 

 

 In Vanaheim, Freyr leads the Vanir and Alfir against 
him. The losses are catastrophic.

 

 Surt breaches Valhalla and begins his real assault. 


 Odin is destined to die fighting Fenrir and Thor is 
destined to die trying to control Jörmungandr. The 
armies of mortal souls and Valkyries make their last 
stand against the fire giant.

Starter Hooks

Ask your players some of these questions just before you begin session

 The worlds are burning one at a time, is standing your 
ground even an option or should you make peace with 
your end?

 The agents of chaos who brought this onto the world 
will suffer with the rest of you anyway. Was their 
conviction to resistance noble in its own way or nothing 
but arrogant futility?

 How will you make your last stand?

Narrative Hooks

For use on the fly

 A being of pure fire.

 Massive footsteps- each a disaster.

 The world will never be the same again for Surt’s passing 
even if it survives.

 The landscape is irrevocably changed as mountains are 
leveled

 Scorched earth

 Forest fires burn out of control

 Dwarves standing in protection of the Bifrost, valiantly 
hoping to keep the demon out

 Their forces are devastated

 The portal to the Bifrost is forced open

 Realms between Midgard and Asgard are set ablaze, 
one at a time

Bifrost crumbles

 The forces of the Alfir retreat to rally in Vanaheim

 Faces grim, immortal blood pumping with 

 determination

 At Freyr’s command, the Alfir make their last stand

 Immortals meet their mortality

 Surt tears apart the veil to burn Asgard, the remaining 
gods stand and fight

 The legions of mortal souls in Valhalla mount an assault 
against the demon

Special Moves

Last Stand

When you stand with a doomed ally, you relive your past glories 
during a quiet moment before seemingly certain doom 
approaches. Describe your most valiant or otherwise greatest 
accomplishment to give yourself and anyone in earshot a +1 
ongoing against a common foe.

Monsters

Fire Imps Small, Organized, Planar

Planar Flame (1D8+4 dmg + Ignores Armor) 16HP/4ARM

Close, Near, Far

Fire Imps are the primary residents of Muspelheim besides Surt. 
They are distant cousins to the Jötnar, though their affinity for 
flames over ice and snow make them immediately discernible. 
While their physical forms are small, they are beings of pure
flame and they are a tough adversary for fighters that don’t have 
opposite elemental forces at their beck and call.

Instinct:

 Encourage mayhem

Move:

 Ignite the earth

 Rally allies

 Destroy a bastion of civilization

Alfir Archer Organized, Planar, Divine

Called Shot (1d10 + 2 damage + 3 piercing) 12HP/1ARM

Hand Axe (1d8 + 2 damage)

Close, Reach, Near, Far

The archers of Alfheim are the Light Elves’ primary offensive 
force. These soldiers are trained and talented, equipped with 
high quality weapons and make these archers a threat at nearly 
every range. The Alfir are stalwart in the heat of battle, making 
them charismatic and bolstering rally points on the front lines. 
Most fighters will follow an Alfir’s command without hesitation 
during a skirmish.

Instinct:

 Quell chaos and evil

Moves:

 Rally troops

 Issue orders



Vanir Paladin Organized, Planar, Divine, Ancient

Smite (1D10+4 Damage) + (Forceful) 15HP/5ARM

Close, Reach

The Vanir Paladin force is one of the deadliest forces outside of 
Asgard and possibly the best trained/most cohesive in all of the 
Nine Realms. The Paladins work tirelessly as a team and employ 
complex maneuvers and formations to get the better of their 
foes. They are also heavily armored with blessed weapons.

Instinct:

 Deal justice and smite evil

Moves:

 Pinpoint or expose a weakness

 Relentlessly attack

 Heal the wounded
