Class Playbooks

We have heard of the glory in bygone days
of the folk-kings of the spear-Danes,
how those noble lords did lofty deeds.

Beowulf

 These are the basic roles players will take on while adventuring
 in Stromgard and they work very much like 
standard Dungeon World class playbooks in terms of functionality. 
One of the major differences here is that 
race has been decoupled from alignment by replacing the standard 
‘race’ move with a broader ‘background’ move. The main goal in doing 
this was to open up the classes to be played by any race character with any 
alignment they choose. GMs and their players can discuss what societal norms 
apply to their preferred races as they please- there is a brief summary of race 
relations of the ‘default’ Stromgard setting in the Race section, though if you are 
playing a race not specifically mentioned therein, collaborate with your group to build 
your own. Alignment moves are still present but I encourage players and GMs to write 
custom alignments or brainstorm interesting ways to enact alignments not listed and/or the 
shades of gray between them.

THE BEARSKIN

“Odin’s men rushed forwards without armor, were as mad as dogs or 
wolves, bit their shields, and were strong as bears or wild oxen, and 
killed people at a blow, but neither fire nor iron told upon them.”

Ynglinga Saga, Prose Edda

 The Bearskins are beholden to no one. Once, these 
berserkers were mere warriors but their relentless devotion to 
their carnal instincts and feral ferocity has fully transformed 
them into something entirely different. They have rejected the 
nature of man, learned the ways of beasts, and wholly given 
themselves over to their indomitable thirst for adversaries that 
can offer a challenge. They charge relentlessly into combat 
covered in nothing but pelts, insult their enemies by refusing 
to use a shield, wander the land like wrathful spirits looking for 
challenge and blood... To die gloriously in combat is a Bearskin’s 
greatest desire. Since their destinies are usually prized by 
warrior-deities, the Bearskins often get their wish.

 What defines a Bearskin, what separates them from a 
normal warrior, is the blood-lust. In the heat of battle or in a 
spike of danger, a Bearskin can snap and go into a frenzy. This 
violent rage puts everyone in proximity at risk. Allies, enemies, 
and even innocent bystanders are all simply moving targets to a 
Bearskin frothing at the mouth and rabid with the desire to rend 
flesh from bone with their bare hands. Bearskins give up a great 
deal for their mantle, certainly, but for those who can put their 
bodies and rational mind on the line, untold destruction can be 
leveraged through their mortal body. 

 For those who can gain their trust and earn a little of their 
loyalty, there are no stronger, more terrifying warriors to employ 
as front-line fighters than the Bearskins... The mere sight of a 
berserker in full rage would cause most leaders with a care for 
their casualties to disengage immediately. The Bearskin, like any 
beast, is untamable. In battle, they feel neither fear nor pain, 
they sacrifice kinship and comfort for the ways of the wild. 
Their frenzy makes them a dangerous ally to keep close and 
their solitary lifestyle makes them more legend than reality to 
most folks. And yet despite all of this, the Bearskins- rare and 
solitary though they may be- are still highly prized by any 
daring commander who can secure their services. It goes 
without saying, though, that this comes with great risk.

 Odin, and to a lesser extent Thor (as well as a host of 
other nature- and war-based deities) favor these formidable 
warriors and their strict, if slightly unorthodox, commitment to 
straightforward combat. It is rumored that Odin himself taught 
the first Bearskins in the ways of the wild, showed them how 
to withstand the ravages of fire and the bite of steel and cold. 
While the Bearskins aren’t organized into a society or order, their 
ways get taught and passed down just the same, from fighter to 
fighter, keeping the wisdom of Odin alive and the path to 
Valhalla open.

Choose a Name

Hrolf, Astrid, Grendel, Kolga, Rollo, Delling, Sven, Sváfa, 
Thorstein, Kára, Bosi, Hervör, Asumund, Eyfura, Bodvar, Thora, 
Volgarr, Bylgja, Arngrim, Hefring, Björn, Angeyja, Styrbjörn, 
Atla, Gunnar, Eyrgjafa, Flosi, Imðr, Brandt, Ulfrún, Einar, Fan, 
Olavi, Yenne, Ove, Sketh, Tarben

Choose a Look

Body: Hulking, sinewy, towering, ritualistic markings

Eyes: Piercing, intense, strangely colored, scarred shut

Hair: Loose and wild, mohawk, messily bound

Clothes: Furs and pelts, rough hewn cloak

Vitals

Max HP is 8+CON

Base Damage is 1D10

Background

Choose your heritage 

Bardic

You are one of Odin’s Men and therefore privy to his wisdom 
as well as his strength. When you Spout Lore about signs or 
omens, take +1.

Dwarf-Blooded

Your constitution is unmatched. You are immune to 
poisons and hangovers.

Not One for Words

You may use STR to intimidate instead of CHA to Parley.

Starting Moves

You start with these moves

Blood Rush

When you succumb to a raging blood-lust, hold 3. While berserking, 
you may spend hold, one for one, to choose:

 Add 1D6 extra damage to an attack; missed attacks 
while raging may result in collateral damage to other 
people/objects

 Destroy or damage something the enemy is carrying

 Take +1 forward when bring your might to bear against 
an enemy or your surroundings or otherwise perform a 
feat of strength

 Take no damage from the next successful melee attack 
against you.

Once you’re out of hold, you become Docile. You may spend 
all of your hold to become Docile at any time to end the Blood 
Rush.

Docile

When your blood-lust fades, you become docile. Take -1 ongoing 
to all actions and another Blood Rush cannot be triggered until 
after you Make Camp.

No Trappings of Men

When you cast off the burdens of civilization by sleeping under 
the open sky and wearing only pelts and hides, take +1 armor.

Rampage

Roll +STR to bullrush through or destroy obstacles. On a 10+ 
you break through or destroy an object in your path. On a 7-9 
you can only manage a lesser version of your intent. On a miss, 
you’re put in a bad position.


Shield Biter

When you show your enemy your shield and bite it to show that 
you do not fear of pain or death in battle and aren’t bound by 
their laws, your weapon gains the Forceful tag. Using your 
shield in battle as armor immediately removes this tag for the 
remainder of the encounter.

Alignment

Choose your leaning 

Neutral

Plunge recklessly ahead in spite of overwhelming danger.

Evil

Plunder a trophy from a bested foe.

Gear:

Begin with this equipment

Your load is 8+ STR. 

You have a pouch of Henbane (3 uses) that provides +1 armor 
during Blood Rush and -1 armor during Docile as well as a 
Ceremonial Shield (1 weight).

Choose your weapon:

 Two handed axe (close, +1 damage, 2 weight)

 War spear (reach, +1 damage, 2 weight)

Choose your animal totem:

 Bear
 Wolf
 Boar
 Eagle
 Serpent
 Goat

Bonds

Explore with others before beginning or write your own

      is a coward. I will show them what valor is.

     may not be like me, but I think they will find 
their way to Valhalla with a noble death.

I do not have the patience for the way      clings to 
the bondage of civilization.

They may try to hide it but     fears me. For good 
reason.

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 2-5, choose one of the following

On the Eve of Battle

Perform a sacred demonstration in preparation for battle. The 
purification and subsequent anointment takes an hour. Ignore 
either: the effect or damage from the first attack made against 
you in your next fight.

Cunning

You may now add the following options to use during your 
Blood Rush:

 Strike them a blow so mighty that they’re stunned

 Draw all attention to yourself.

Blood Roar

When you scream like a bloodthirsty animal and charge into 
battle, demoralize the enemy combatant(s). Take +1 on the first 
attack you make per combat encounter.

Cold Blooded

You’re incapable of being intimidated.

Odin’s Men

Take a move from the Skald class.

Live to Fight

When you go into a rage and activate your Blood Rush, regain 
CON + 1D6 HP.

Unkillable

When you take your Last Breath, on a 10+ immediately return 
to consciousness with 1HP. Your Blood Rush immediately 
triggers, even if you were Docile.

Improved Blood Rush

Take +1 hold during Blood Rush.

Evil Eye

When you stare into the whites of your enemy’s eyes, your bestial 
nature intimidates even their weapons, blunting them. Take +1 
armor until the end of combat.

Beastkin

When you call upon the spirit of your animal totem and change 
your physical form, roll +CON. On a 10+ hold 3, on a 7-9 
hold 2. On a miss, hold 1 in addition to whatever the GM tells 
you. You can take the physical form of your animal totem and 
any innate talents and weaknesses they have. When you run out 
of hold, you revert back to your natural form, or you can spend 
all your hold to revert back whenever you wish. The GM will 
describe 1 or more moves your animal form has. Spend hold to 
do these actions. You retain all of your normal stats during this 
time.

Advanced Moves cont’d

When you take a level between 6-10, choose one of the following

Fire Dance

Requires: On the Eve of Battle

Your ritual now incorporates an elaborate, wild dance and a large 
bonfire. You are immune to the destructive nature of fire while 
Blood Rush is active.

Blood Payment

Requires: Fire Dance

Your ritual is now perfected with an offering of your own blood. 
You are immune to the damage inflicted by bladed, slashing 
weapons while your Blood Rush is active.

Unleashed

You can now incorporate the following into your Blood Rush 
options:

 Your weapon gains the Messy tag

Greater Blood Rush

Replaces: Improved Blood Rush

Gain +2 hold when activating Blood Rush.

Berserker’s Vigor

Replaces: Live to Fight

When you go into a rage and activate your Blood Rush, regain 
CON + 1D10 HP.

Chain Kill

Gain +1 hold with every subsequent kill during Blood Rush.

Well of Knowledge

Take one move from the Skald class.

Overpower

When you roll a 12+ on any Defy Danger roll, you turn the 
danger back on itself. The GM will describe how.

THE SKALD

For fabling braggarts
Full am I of scorn,
Of worthy friends:
Courts I of monarchs
A many have sought,
A gallant minstrel
Of guileless mood.

Arinbjarnarkviða, Egil’s Saga

 Everyone knows that there is power in words, though 
maybe none know it as well as the Skald. A Skald can invoke 
the gods, trace notable bloodlines, immortalize heroic deeds and 
cowardly acts for all of time. When the Skald speaks, they create 
truth. When the Skald speaks, they make things real. 

 All jarls and commanders and leaders are very aware of 
the power a Skald wields, especially over them. Make an 
enemy with a vengeful Skald and your whole seat of power 
and influence could be facing a smear campaign or worse still, 
simple erasure from the minds of the people you need to hold 
sway over. Authority in Stromgard is often made on tremulous 
compromises and no one has better insight to these webs than a 
Skald. They know full well that a simple lie or a flattering tale is 
all that it takes to manipulate the threads of fate.

 Above all, however, the Skald is an academic and lorekeeper, 
a resource the community depends on for information, 
mediation, and education. Skalds are highly respected because 
of their role in most settlements and they have little trouble 
interacting with people from all walks of life. Noble-born and 
other ruling classes depend on them to record their lineage and 
settle matters of court as an unbiased third party, warriors ask 
the Skald to send their prayers to the gods on the eve of battle, 
sailors employ the Skald on long expeditions to record their 
journeys and take the lead with any foreign interaction. 

 The trappings may be unassuming for a Skald but their 
power is immense and far-reaching. Society relies on Skalds to 
record history and ensure the stories of Stromgard, and its 
people, survive. They are the thread that binds the past to the 
present and the present to the future.

Choose a Name

Bersi, Ingeborg, Bragi, Sigrith, Snorri, Brynhild, Elvindr, Vlasta, 
Egill, Galica, Kormakr, Blenda, Eilifr, Rani, Hallfredr, Ingrid, 
Einarr, Darby, Gunnalgur, Lamone, Sigvatr, Ragna, Ottar, Runa, 
Arnor, Selby, Njal, Soini, Tua, Helgi, Tove, Heimir, Thyra, 
Völsung

Choose a Look

Body: Gangly, svelte, thick, sturdy

Eyes: Clever, bright, sharp, beguiling

Hair: Intricate braids, pulled high, shorn, loose

Clothes: Fur-lined cloak, buckskin tunic

Vitals

Max HP is 6+CON

Base Damage is 1D6

Background

Choose your heritage 

Networker

When you reach out to another skald or bardic professional for 
information, take +1 forward when acting on their tip.

Mixed Blood

Choose a secondary culture and take a +1 to Spout Lore in 
matters that concern them.

Starting Moves

Historian

When you visit a famous place, or somewhere you’ve been 
before, ask the GM one of the following questions. The GM 
must answer truthfully. 

 Is everything as it seems here?

 What is notable about this location’s history?

 What do the people here value?

 What are the locals wary of?


Mediary

Your occupation makes you a valued member of society. Until 
you give people a reason to mistrust you, they will tend to take 
you at your word. This will not keep already-hostile enemies 
from attacking you.

Well-Timed Strikes

When you Hack & Slash, on a 7-9 take +1 armor forward. On 
a 10+ you still gain the +1 armor forward but an ally of your 
choice also gains +1 forward to attack the enemy.

Cultural

You can communicate on a basic level with any culture or race.

Recitation

When you perform for a crowd of people, roll +CHA. On a 10+ 
you influence the crowd’s emotions, on a 7-9 choose one:

 The effect lasts longer than one minute but less than 
five

 The effect is deeply moving and the crowd is stirred 
to intense reaction

 The magic is subtle and the crowd isn’t immediately 
aware of your manipulation when the effect wears off

Direct

When you make intense, direct eye contact with someone in an 
appropriate setting, you may ask them what their true motivation 
is. The character will tell the truth even if they would have 
hidden it otherwise.

Alignment

Choose your leaning 

Neutral

Resolve a fight with words instead of bloodshed.

Chaotic

Deliberately delude someone for your own gain.

Gear:

Begin with this equipment

Your load is 9+ STR. 

You start with a favor owed to you by a local noble, wealthy 
patron, or other prominent person for expert services rendered.

Choose your signature instrument:

 Panflute made of auroch horns and sheep bones

 Small horsehair harp with mysterious runes carved into 
the body

 Metal lur, a long horn that was once used to marshal a 
great army.

 A set of horn pipes, an heirloom of your family

Choose your equipment:

 Bill Hook (reach, 2 weight)

 Heirloom Short Sword (close, 1 weight) and Wooden 
Shield (+1 armor, 2 weight)

And take your supplies:

 Adventuring Gear (5 uses, 1 weight)

 Bandages (3 uses, slow, 0 weight)

 A pouch of 5 coins

Bonds:

Explore with others before starting or write your own

      ‘s deeds are great and numerous. My songs 
will immortalize them.

     has a radical worldview that deserves 
further study.

     is more than who they say they are.

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 2-5, choose one of the following

Serenity Now

Recitation now affects animals

Divine Leverage

When you take your Last Breath, if you trigger a meeting with 
Death, make them an offer instead. If Death agrees, return to 
the living stabilized with 1HP.

Kenning

When you use the same metaphor to describe yourself or one of 
your allies in all of your tales, roll +CHA. On a 10+ choose an 
epithet to attach to yourself or the ally you sang about. People 
will treat it as though it is true until proven otherwise. On a 
7-9, the effect is temporary, the GM will decide how long.

Traverse Tale

When you spin an intricate tale while you Undertake a Perilous 
Journey, cut the duration in half.

Well-timed Sidestep

Replaces: Well-timed Strikes

When you Hack & Slash, on a 7-9 take +2 armor forward. On 
a 10+ you still gain the +2 armor forward but an ally of your 
choice also gains +1 forward to attack the enemy.

Tilt Tactics

Single out an enemy and let loose on their insecurities. That 
enemy considers you its highest priority target.

Radical Leanings

When you introduce a new idea to an NPC roll +CHA. On a 
10+ they think the idea was their own and take to it with 
fervor. On a 7-9 their passion fades in a day or so. On a miss, 
they respond negatively and take a hard stance against it.

Bolster

When you bolster the courage of others roll +CHA. On a 10+ 
they shake off all fear and doubt, becoming brave instantly. On 
a 7-9 the effect is fleeting; they realize it is superficial and resort 
to cowardice. On a miss, they’re cowed and terrified.

Slander

When you ruthlessly insult an NPC, roll +CHA. On a 10+ they 
make an extremely rash decision that will have lasting 
consequences. On a 7-9 you cross a line and they will have their 
revenge. On a miss, you’ve gone too far and they blow up here 
and now.

Double or Nothing

Whenever you’re about to take damage, describe how you 
luckily avoid it and roll +DEX. On a 10+ you escape the danger 
and take no penalty. On a 7-9 you endure the blow you tried 
to avoid and you’re committed to your daring but failed dodge. 
On a miss, you endure the blow and something else bad 
happens. The GM will tell you what.

Advanced Moves cont’d

When you take a level between 6-10, choose one of the following

Story and Song

When you perform this song roll +CHA. On a 10+ you can 
convince anyone who hears it that its lyrics are the literal truth. 
On a 7-9 you believe it too. On a miss, a memory of your own 
gets corrupted somehow.

Thu’um

Your word is a weapon. When you shout your battle cry at an 
enemy, roll +CHA. On a 10+ it deals 1D10 damage with the 
Forceful tag. On a 7-9 choose one:

 Roll damage twice and take the lower result.

 Take -1 ongoing to using Thu’um until you Make 
Camp.

 You draw unwelcome attention or put yourself in a 
spot.

Incite

Requires: Radical Leanings

You may now apply the effects of Radical Leanings to a group of 
people of 12 or fewer.

Evil Eye

When you enter into combat roll +CHA. On a 10+ hold 2, on 
a 7-9 hold 1. Spend hold to make eye contact with an NPC, 
who flinches or freezes and can’t act or break the contact until 
you look away. On a miss, your enemies immediately identify 
you as their biggest threat.

Music Soothes the Savage Beast

Recitation now affects all creatures, including monsters.

Jack of All Trades

Take a move from another class.

Rules of Engagement

When you give an enemy you have damaged the chance to escape or 
surrender, roll +CHA. On a 10+, unless they are willing to die 
fighting you, they oblige. On a 7-9 they fear you and you take 
+1 armor against them for the remainder of the encounter.

THE HUNTER

“Many men both saw and heard a great number of huntsmen 
hunting. The huntsmen were shadowed, huge, and hideous, and rode on black 
horses and on black he-goats, and their hounds were jet black, with eyes like 
saucers, and horrible.”

Peterborough Chronicle, Laud Manuscript

 The Hunters are a mysterious, isolated sect. Hardly 
anything is known about their structure (if there’s even any to be 
found) except the fact that they are unerringly sadistic, anarchistic 
vigilantes who hunt the dishonorable and the unpunished. 
The Hunter code of honor is difficult to read for outsiders but 
when a Hunter decides on a mark, nothing will keep them from 
taking their hit. Still, the fact remains that while overall, the 
moral compass of the Hunters remains highly individualized. 
It is clear that these shadowy rogues are committed to serving 
justice, however they define it.

 The Hunters are incredibly secretive, especially about 
their order and its level of cohesion. Even under threat of 
torture and physical duress, Hunters rarely spill anything 
meaningful about their structure. Facts are, therefore, quite 
scarce but bribe the right skald and they may tell a few choice 
pieces of information. While most of this is unverifiable simply 
due to the nature of the Hunters’ silence, their order is rumored 
to have originated in the deep belt of forest at the north-
eastern edge of Stromgard’s borders. This stretch of woodland, 
the Vidrmaark, is dense and dark and it takes very little 
imagination to picture secret meetings and rituals taking place 
here, free from the prying eyes of even the gods.

 Many lorekeepers also believe the rumor that Hunters 
will accept anyone into their fold and forgive all of their sins if 
they pass a rigorous initiation ritual that is not only physically 
demanding, but emotionally debilitating and mentally draining. 
And also reportedly very fatal.

 These are more obscure rumors than what the common 
folk typically hear, however. Mostly, people know to stay away 
from Hunters and to flee at the sound a hunting party on dark, 
misty nights. Some bolder parents tell stories of Hunters to 
misbehaving children and warn them that a shadowy assassin 
will materialize at night to make them pay for their transgressions. 
Most wiser people, however, avoid speaking about 
Hunters in public or in polite company as there are superstitions 
and conspiracies that claim they hide in plain sight and are 
endlessly resourceful with disguising themselves. It is also 
believed that to speak of Hunters aloud is to invite their 
judgment, whatever that may be based on.

 It is also common knowledge that the Hunters are 
devoted to (some say worship) something called the Wild Hunt- 
a ghostly cavalcade of demonic forces that roam the land for 
cowards, backstabbers, and other dishonorable and then 
forcefully drag them off to Helheim, and the dark lady Hel, 
herself. Typically rumored to occur over the dead of winter, a 
legion of mounted, monstrous riders led by a huge horned figure 
sound their enormous hunting horns and rampage across the 
land. Hunters chase worthy quarry as a show of devotion to the 
Wild Hunt, to prove their capabilities and earn a spot for 
themselves so that they may hunt even in death. This, in turn, is 
also why when a Hunter suffers pain or insult, absolutely 
nothing will deter them from delivering recompense.

 To the rare few who witness the Hunter in battle without 
winding up as a stain on their blade, they are inevitably left in 
awe by their fleet footed speed and brutal, debilitating strikes. 
They are powerful fighters and brutally unrestrained. Pain and 
injury hardly seem to slow them at all. They are resourceful, 
cunning, adaptable, and above all, stubbornly determined to 
produce results.

 

Choose a Name

Thorson, Ragni, Torben, Ruthulan, Tor, Nora, Ulf, Hildr, 
Vidar, Ylva, Viggo, Hlökk, Skögul, Geirskögul, Halla, 
Gunnbjorn, Ölrún, Bjarni, Helga, Leif, Sifka, Sigmund, 
Hergerd, Borghilde, Ingeld, Egil, Gudrun, Breca, Ogn, Haki, 
Solveig, Hama, Bara, Mörðr, Dagmar

Choose a Look:

Body: Lithe, sinewy, athletic

Eyes: Mismatched, hawkish, feral

Hair: Wild, adorned with small antlers or plants, messy plait

Clothes: Oversized cowl, ornamental mask

Vitals:

Max HP is 6+CON

Base Damage is 1D8

Background

Choose your heritage 

Shamanic

You have a special hatred for the undead. When you hunt down 
and destroy anything abusing the natural cycle of life and death, 
take +1 ongoing against them.

Eagle-Eyed

Intangible obstructions like smoke or bad weather do not inhibit 
your ability to see in daylight.

Hardened

You require little in comfort. You regain full HP even when 
roughing it outdoors as long as you can get a few hours’ sleep.

Starting Moves

The Hunter’s Mark

Hunters mark themselves during a secret initiation ritual. 
Choose a gift:

 Dark Vision

 Thin geometric designs in black ink trail up the sides 
of your skull and down the length of your throat. 
They are imbued with a kind of warding magic that 
allows you to see clearly in the dark, both natural and 
magical.

Flame Soak

 Curling flares in crimson are etched into the palms 
of your hands. The runic design soaks up to 1D8 

 fire damage inflicted by a single instance. Once you 

 have absorbed the flame, you will need to take a long 

 rest or Make Camp before you can use this ability 
again. You can also create small flames at your finger 
tips (about the size of a match's flame) for utility 
purposes like lighting a candle.

 Water Breath

 Rolling, undulating circular designs in cobalt blue 
are carved into your arms, shoulders, and chest. The 
sigils allow you to breathe water for 1D10 minutes, 
though once that is depleted you will need to take 
a long rest or Make Camp before you can use this 
boon again.

 Feather Fall

 Intricate feathers have been painstakingly stippled 
into your back and down your spine. When you fall 
from a height of 40ft or less, take no damage from 
impact.

Fleet-Footed

When you wear no armor, take Armor equal to your DEX 

bonus.

Insomniac

Take +1 to Take Watch rolls.

True Sight

When you Discern Realities during combat, take +1.

Alignment

Choose your leaning 

Good

Do justice regardless of laws or personal risk.

Chaotic

Exact vengeance against someone or something that harmed 
you. Charge interest.

Gear

Begin with this equipment

Your load is 9+ STR. 

You start with a memento of your best kill. Describe it. You 
also have Healing Poultices (5 uses, 0 weight)

Choose your armament:

 Short Bow (near, 2 weight), Quiver of Arrows (x5 

 ammo, 1 weight), and a Hunting Dagger (hand, 1

 weight)

 Club (close, 2 weight) and Stone Dagger (hand, 1 

 weight)

 Rough Halberd (reach, two-handed, 2 weight)

Bonds

Explore with others before starting or write your own
 
        has insulted me and a Hunter never forgets.

        is weak and in need of protection from those 
that would exploit them for selfish gain.

        does not understand the true nature of the 
weak and the strong.

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 2-5, choose one of the following

Weathered

Take a move from the Ranger class.

Pay it Back

Take +1 ongoing to attacks against anything that successfully 
damages you.

Resourceful

When you Make Camp, provided you are in a suitable area, you 
can gather herbs to make one Healing Poultice per night.

Wild Hunt

When you mark a target befitting of your skills, add +1D4 damage 
on your first attack against it.

Knife in the Back

Take the Thief move Backstab.

Nimble

When you take the most direct path between two points, regardless 
of obstacles or structures in the way, roll +DEX. On a 7-9 
you make it across but cannot use the same path back.

Catlike

When you Defy Danger DEX take +1.

Beat Feet

When you run away from an enemy, roll +DEX. On a 10+ you 
and your allies escape without a trace. On a 7-9 you can get 
away but your allies aren’t able to follow the path you set as 
quietly.

Fast Learner

When you see someone else successfully Defy Danger, take a +1 to 
copy the action.

Eagle’s Strike

When you attack from above with intent to kill, your attack 
damage counts as Piercing damage.

Advanced Moves cont’d

When you take a level between 6-10, choose one of the following

Those of the North

Take a move from the Ranger class list.

Feral

Take either the Cheap Shot OR Shoot First move from the Thief 
class list.

Tributes For the Horned Rider

If you take time to mark your kills in the name of the Wild Hunt 
after a conflict, take +1 forward.

Hard to Kill

Whenever you suffer a debility in combat take +1 against 
whatever caused it.

Paid in Spades

Requires: Pay it Back

During a battle you can choose to take an extra 1D4 damage on 
a hit (ignoring armor) to add your level to the damage dealt on 
your next successful attack to anything that has already damaged 
you.

Grounded

You are deeply rooted in the tangible experiences of the world 
and are immune to thought probing, mind control, and other 
unnatural influences.

Feline Grace

Replaces: Catlike

When you Defy Danger DEX take +2.

Deader

Mark your target. Even if they escape you they will be known to 
other Hunters and will find no rest anywhere.

THE STORMCALLER

The sea, storm-driven, seeks heaven itself,
O’er the earth it flows, the air grows sterile,
Then follow the snows and the furious winds

Hyndluljoth, Poetic Edda

 The arcane is always a dangerous frontier but maybe not 
as much as it is for a Stormcaller. Few who call themselves 
wizards or mages can conjure up so much power at their 
fingertips. No mere geomancer, the ability to be a Stormcaller is 
a rare gift that can manifest unexpectedly and suddenly. There 
are tales of Stormcallers that suddenly learn their aptitude for 
controlling wind and lightning well into adulthood and could 
hardly master cantrips up to that point. Set apart by other 
elemental mages by their raw power, Stormcallers are resourceful 
and typically wicked smart, always using the world around them 
to their advantage in a pinch. 

 Their skill set is highly sought after amongst sailors as 
well. Stormcallers can single-handedly guide a full fleet to the 
edges of the world at great speeds while ensuring that weather 
and tides are agreeable and a fair wind blows at their backs. 
Also, should any monstrosities below the waves come up to 
cause trouble, a Stormcaller at the ready is more effective at 
dispatching an issue than men clambering between boats and 
hurling spears. Conversely, there are few things that can cause as 
much chaos for sailors as an angry Stormcaller.

 These elementalists are resourceful as well, forging vicious 
weapons out of mere ice, limited only by their wild imaginations- 
which makes them almost impossible to catch unarmed 
and unawares. Stormcallers are typically fringe-dwellers, honing 
their craft in isolated snowfields or secluded glacial expanses due 
to the primal and sometimes wild nature of their powers. The 
loyalty and camaraderie of these powerful mages must be earned, 
therefore, though Stormcallers are motivated by much more 
than simply gold. Their strength is highly prized but also feared 
in equal measure.

 Leveraging their desires over the primal forces can add to 
the Stormcaller’s commonly capricious nature. Much like the 
storms they summon and harness, the mages themselves can be 
fierce and wild, difficult to keep under control and impossible 
to pin down. Very few prisons can adequately hold a Stormcaller... 
or even amount to little more than an inconvenience. 
Adittionally, the retribution a Stormcaller could wreak once free 
is typically enough to damper any bright ideas about imprisoning 
them so directly. Tales have sprung up here and there about 
whole villages suddenly buried under snow or sealed off from 
mountain passes... And while Stormcallers are adept at close 
range combat, they can make the most of long range conflicts by 
blockading areas and turning it into a battle of attrition, accelerate 
food rot with dank weather, flood them out, manipulate the 
cycle of seasons itself. 

 Stormcallers must be wary, however. Of their own 
double-edged abilities, of course, but also of those with an 
agenda and a need for firepower.

Choose a Name:

Agnar, Hagbarðr, Dröfn, Haco, Dúfa, Höðbroddr, Hrönn, 
Ragnarr, Kólga, Starkaðr, Unn, Caldar, Uðr, Carr, An, Staan, 
Reed, Stigr, Gráinne, Sutherlund, Muirisc, Yudit, Furatha, 
Kylda, Brenna, Iona, Halvdan, Visäte, Gunnborga, Öpir, 
Frögärd, Ösby

Choose a Look:

Eyes: Unseeing, sunken, shadowed

Hair: Long and tousled, unevenly shorn, strangely colored

Clothes: Well-crafted robes, dyed kyrtill, shaggy cloak with 
ornamental pin

Vitals:

Max HP is 4+CON

Base Damage is 1D8

Background

Choose your heritage 

Grey-Elvish

You can walk through snow or mud or other malleable surfaces 
without leaving tracks.

Störmson

You cannot be hindered by rain or snow while moving 
under your own power.

Apt Student

When you Spout Lore about the natural world (like weather or 
geography) or the finer points of arcane workings, take +1.

Starting Moves

Biting Words

When you deliberately escalate a situation that leads to a fight, 
you can attack first.

Ice Weapon

Like any good mage, you’ve learned to harness your powers 
for offensive purposes. When you conjure a weapon of ice, 
roll+WIS. You can use your WIS as STR or DEX when attacking 
with this weapon. This weapon always has the Touch, Dangerous, 
and x3 Uses tags. Each attack counts as a use. On a 10+ 
choose two of the following tags to add. On a 7-9 choose one.

 Hand

 Thrown/Near

 +1 Damage

 Remove the Dangerous tag

Brittle

Your icy aura degrades blade edges. When you take damage from 
an enemy attack they will suffer 1D4 reduced damage on their 
next hit against any target.

Fragile

You can weaken an object small enough to hold in your hand to 
the point where it will fracture and break if it is moved. You can 
break it yourself or choose to leave it for someone else to shatter.

Ice in the Veins

You’re immune to the effects of magical and nonmagical cold. 
Weapons or the weight of an ice floe will still hurt but the 
coldness itself does nothing

Glass Cannon

Gain +1 damage to attacks while wearing no armor.

Alignment

Choose your leaning 

Chaotic

Disregard a figure of authority.

Lawful

Use your powers to enforce the law.

Gear

Begin with this equipment

Your load is 7+ STR. 

You start with:

Dungeon Rations (5 uses, 1 weight), a Stone Dagger (hand, 1 
weight), and a pouch of Poultices and Herbs (2 uses, 1 weight)

Bonds

Explore with others before starting or write your own

        fundamentally misunderstands the nature 
of my power.

I share a secret with       that could upset the balance 
of power.

I must protect        from the destructive realities of 
the world.

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 2-5, choose one of the following

Shield

When you magically brace yourself for an attack against a person, 
place, or thing, roll +WIS. On a 10+ hold 3, on a 7-9 hold 1, 
on a miss- in addition to whatever the GM tells you- something 
goes terribly wrong. As long as you’re braced and concentrating, 
spend hold, 1 for 1, to do the following:

 Raise a wall of ice to absorb half of the attack’s 

 damage or effect.

 A blast of icy wind leaves the assailant vulnerable to an 
ally’s attack, giving them +1 forward.

 Make a show of crackling energy and thunder, 
directing the enemy’s attention and attack to yourself.

 Raise jagged lances of ice from thin air to deal damage 
to the enemy equal to your level.

Improved Ice Weapon

You may now choose to add the following tags when creating an 
Ice Weapon:

 Messy

 Forceful

 Reach

 Thrown/Far

Lightning Step

You can teleport to any Near location. This also produces a 
deafening thunderclap that can be heard for miles.

Blast

When you create a blast of freezing wind that tears through the 
area for about a minute, roll+WIS. On a 10+ choose two 
effects, on a 7-9 choose one.

 Cold enough to slow enemy movement by half.

 Strong enough to cause light damage to homes and 
ships.

 Whips up snow or dirt to obscure visibility.

 Pushes one object your size or smaller towards or 
away from you.

Stormcall

With one hour of meditation, create a blizzard or torrential rainstorm 
that lasts for 1D4 days. Even out of season, precipitation 
will impede travel and moor boats.

Shaper

When you wish to create something, roll +WIS. On a 7-9, 
choose what price you pay to build your structure.

 It takes an hour to make

 It is extremely fragile

 It collapses without active concentration

 No one you do not have a bond with can touch it 
without it melting.

Immobilize

When you grab someone with thick ice that bursts from the 
ground, roll +WIS. On a 7-9, choose what price to pay. 

 The restraints are extremely fragile and won’t hold for 
long against struggling

The restraints must be maintained with active concentration

 The restraints can only hold two limbs

 The restraints slow them or monopolize their attention 
for a moment but do not hold them.

Advanced Moves:

When you take a level between 6-10, choose one of the following

Freezing Blast

Requires: Blast

You can now add ice shards to Blast that cause 1D4 damage to 
anyone caught in the gust as an effect.

Frozen Hide

Add +1 Armor.

Fractured Prison

Requires: Immobilize

When you Immobilize someone you may now choose to deal 
them 1D4 damage as an effect.

Lightning Stride

Requires: Lightning Step

If you choose, you may now teleport through enemies that are in 
your available zone, dealing 1D4 damage to each.

To the Bone

Through advanced harnessing of destructive natural forces, your 
Ice Weapon now permanently takes on the Ignores Armor tag.

Construct

When you take time to create a figure made from ice and snow, 
treat it as a character that only has access to basic moves, has a 
+0 modifier for all stats, HP equal to your own level, and has a 
damage die of D6. Roll +WIS to issue orders to the construct. 
On a 10+, choose 3. On a 7-9, choose 2. On a miss, choose 1 
in addition to whatever else the GM says. 

 Its damage die increases to 1D8

 +1 HP per level

 It has 1 armor

 It has the Large and Reach tags

 One stat has a +2 modifier

 You can see and hear anything it sees or hears 

You can only command one construct at a time. If you summon 
a second one, the first melts.

Frozen Solid

When you freeze any living creature (up to Large size) solid, roll 
+WIS. On a 10+ the creature is completely frozen. On a 7-9 
deal 1D6 damage and they regain their mobility after 1 minute.

THE CRONE

The wide-seeing witch, in magic wise;
Minds she bewitched that were moved by her magic

Völuspá, Poetic Edda

 There are few in Stromgard so shrouded in mystery as the 
Crone. For a long time, it was said that Crones were old women 
living in remote huts and that you must show them respect and 
offer a gift if you expected to benefit from the encounter. Today, 
Crones come in all shapes, sizes, and gender persuasions. It is 
not so much a physical descriptor as a title, one that describes a 
certain skill set and lays out a certain expectation for the layperson 
making an attempt at interaction.

 Crones are, however, very powerful and still treated with 
some amount of caution all over the land. They are regarded as 
wisepeople, skilled hedgewitches and shamans- but their powers 
come with a price and they are notoriously unpredictable. They 
would just as soon wreak havoc on the land then heal a blight. 
Crones can deliver curses, sicken livestock, read sleeping minds, 
plant suggestions… To ask for the services of one of these mages 
is to ask for all these horrible things and worse should you not 
appease whatever request they make in exchange.

 With so many tales circulating about the doings of these 
powerful witches, most settlements of Stromgard will go out of 
their way to show hospitality to a Crone- for fear of being cursed 
in some way, not because they desire to show kindness. Because 
the Crone’s reputation will nearly always precede them, they can 
have difficulty meshing normally with villagers, though they 
typically have no trouble intimidating their way to whatever 
they require.

Choose a Name

Ufkel, Aella, Beyla, Byggvir, Fitela, Eldir, Himinglæva, Glenr, 
Eistla, Angantyr, Kahina, Folcwalding, Sarra, Heiðrekr, Oya, 
Hjalmar, Lethsa, Svafrlami, Ithothel, Eilo, Sinfjötli, Mithna, 
Gudrun, Andrasta, Ivar, Nemae, Gangleri, Skuld, Göndul, 
Asmund, Asta

Choose a Look

Body: Crooked, weathered, youthful

Eyes: Stone cold, glittering, yellowed

Hair: Covered, long and tangled, wiry

Clothes: Layers upon layers, many pouches and bags, wide 
brimmed and battered hat

Vitals

Max HP is 8+CON

Base Damage is 1D4

Background

Choose your heritage 

Wiseperson

People might be intimidated by you but they also know that you 
have vast knowledge and experience. Take +1 to Parley if you 
use this as leverage.

Wyrd-Magicks

A widely held belief is that to say something out loud gives it 
a kind of power. Take +1 whenever you Spout Lore about the 
arcane or mythical.

Starting Moves

Curse

When you suffer an insult or slight from someone and curse them, 
roll +INT. On a 7-9 choose one effect below. On a 10+ the 
curse manifests in an additional, unexpected way. No matter the 
roll, you may choose whether the effects manifest immediately 
or at a later point in time.

 Blight the land

 Sicken livestock

 Cause illness

 Cause recurring nightmares

 Cause the target to be haunted by a restless spirit

 Cause an extended unlucky period

Energy Delay

When you use your powers to alter the natural energy of something- 
inertia, force, mass, etc- by absorbing it, describe how. At 
a later time, you will have to release the pent up energy in some 
manner, usually at a destructive cost to yourself. You can hold 
on to one unique force at a time. Force output must match its 
original direction relative to you. A stab wound that is delayed 
will still be a fresh, open wound when the energy is released, 
just as a powerful crushing force will still crush downward when 
released.

Phantom Touch

When you summon a phantasmal extension of your arm and 
hand, roll +INT. On a 10+ it can interact with physical objects 
just like a real limb in a radius of about 10 feet.

Mystic Rites

When you draw on leylines, natural magic, or the correct components 
to construct a specific arcane effect, tell the GM what 
you’re trying to accomplish. The GM will give you 1-4 of the 
following stipulations as your magic takes hold:

 It will take a long time to complete

 First, you must 

 You will require the assistance of someone

 It will take a hefty sacrifice

 The best you can do is a lesser version that is unreliable or 
limited somehow

 There is a dangerous risk that comes with the spell

 It attracts the attention of something dangerous

Jedi Mind Trick

When you implant a suggestion on someone, roll +CHA. On a 
10+ they repeat the suggestion and believe it for one minute and 
they will be confused as to where the idea came from once the 
spell ends. On a 7-9 they will remember your face and what you 
did after the spell fades.

Alignment

Choose your leaning 

Chaotic

Intimidate or scare your way out of a direct confrontation.

Evil

Terrify someone into doing something against their will.

Gear

Begin with this equipment

Your load is 6+ STR. 

You start with Dungeon Rations (5 uses, 1 weight) and a pouch 
of Poultices and Herbs (2 uses, 1 weight)

Choose your weapon:

 Ragged Broom (two-handed, 1 weight)
 Homemade Staff (two-handed, 1 weight)
 Gnarled tree branch (two-handed, 1 weight)

And a collection of Ritual Components (0 weight, x7 uses)

 Any time you need common items for spellweaving you 
can expend one use to pull it from your collection with the 
GM’s agreement (they may request that you obtain something 
more unusual). You can replenish your uses by collecting, 
bartering, or buying magically interesting materials with the 
GM's approval.

Bonds:

Explore with others before starting or write your own

has a curse on them but not from me.

I know what haunts       ’s nightmares.

has a sickness coming to them that I may be 
able to prevent.

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 2-5, choose one of the following

Empath

Choose an item of importance you own. When someone else 
holds it you can gain the general impressions of their thoughts.

Sleepwalker

When you obtain and burn a lock of hair from your victim, you 
may briefly take control of them when they next sleep. This 
includes clumsy or heavy walking, slurred speech, and general 
impressions of emotions. Anything that would normally wake a 
person will jar your victim out of the trance and the spell ends.

Medium

When you sit in meditation under the open night sky and call 
out to the ethereal realm to speak with a spirit, roll +CHA. On 
a 10+ you find the spirit you were looking for and may ask it 
three questions. On a 7-9 you locate the spirit but can only get 
vague information from them.

No Mortal Barrier

When you attempt to unlock a nonmagical lock with your 
powers, roll+INT. On a 7-9 you manage to undo it but it draws 
unwanted attention.

Willingly Sacrificed

A willing ally may choose to give you 1D4 healing at the cost of 
1D4 damage to themselves.

Face Stealer

When you take on the face of another, roll +CHA. On a 10+ 
you copy their face perfectly, though your body and voice 
remain your own.

Finder

When you speak the full and true name of a person, place, or 
thing to the wind at exactly noon, roll +INT. On a 10+ you will 
have a dream of the thing’s exact location that night. On a 7-9 
you gain a vague or cryptic impression.

Swarm

At your command, a mass of small vermin materialize at your 
feet. Once summoned, the animals behave as their devouring 
instinct demands and will frenzy on any food source within 
sight. Healthy creatures larger than a dog that get caught in the 
swarm take 1D4 damage. Creatures smaller risk being eaten 
alive.

Nightshade

Cause unnatural darkness to fill a confined space for up to five 
minutes.

Aura Sight

All living things give off a faint aura. With some concentration, 
you can see their forms in any darkness, natural or otherwise.

Dominate

When you wish to control a creature of animal intelligence or 
lower and it is within your direct line of sight, roll +INT. On a 
10+ hold 3, on a 7-9 hold 1. You may spend hold, one for one, 
to do the following. When you take damage as your animal host 
or to your own body while dominating, add an extra 1D4 
damage.

 Move to a new place
 Make a loud noise
 Retrieve a small object (smaller than the creature itself)
 Attack a target
 Behave unnaturally to draw attention.

Advanced Moves 

When you take a level between 6-10, choose one of the following 

Death Wail 

When you throw your head back and shriek at the top of your 
lungs, roll +CHA. On a 10+ angry spirits join to form a hellish 
cacophony that causes enemies to flee in terror. On a 7-9, the 
effect is decidedly weaker than intended in some way.

Overwhelm Mind

Requires: Dominate

You may now control human targets and add the following conditions 
to your available pool:

 Speak a handful of simple phrases
 Target does not realize they were influenced after the spell has worn off.

When you take on the full appearance of another, roll +CHA. 
On a 10+ you look and sound exactly like them, though your 
movements and mannerisms are still your own.
VoidtouchWhen you are in a dark place and summon the very shadows to 
attack, roll +CHA. On a 10+, shadowy figures leap from the 
darkness and deal 1D10 damage before melting away again.
