COMPENDIUM 
CLASSES

On clear gold labels let into the cross-piece

it was rightly told in runic letters,

set down and sealed, for whose sake it was

that the sword was first forged, that finest of iron

sprial-hilted, serpent bladed.

Beowulf

 The Compendium Classes are special ‘prestige’ classes that 
the GM may open up to any PC once they have met certain 
conditions. The Compendium Classes offer a few new moves 
to allow the character archetypes to specialize even further than 
their playbooks allow. Once a PC takes on a Compendium 
Class, they may choose one of the new moves at level up instead 
of one their character sheet.

 

 Take note that while most of the Compendium Classes 
are available to all characters, the Úlfhéðnar is available to 
the Bearskin only.

The Seiðr

I doomed myself when I dared to tell

What fate will befall the gods

Vafþrúðnismál, Poetic Edda

 Associated with spinning thread and tantric sex rituals, 
the Seiðr were usually (but not always) women who had the gift 
of foresight. They were both intimidating and revered as 
powerful mystics who could at once deliver you to your fate and 
also burden you with terrible truths. The Seiðr themself carries a 
heavy burden as well, their powers keep them from being able to 
live normal lives and they will be eternally sought, praised, and 
damned for their magic.

When you drink from a well of knowledge and gain divine 
insight, you make take this move:

Read Wyrd

When you wish to consult your oracular powers, roll +WIS. On 
a 7-9 you receive a vision of what is likely to pass, on a 10+ you 
may ask the GM one clarifying question.

For every additional level you reach, you may choose one:

Well Read

When you Spout Lore about the divine or mystical, take +1

Secret Finder

When you Discern Realities to uncover a lie, take +1

Threads of Fate

When you accomplish an alignment goal in combat take +1 
forward.

Face of the Divine:

When you wish to speak for the gods, assume the appearance of 
one so long as your goals align. Roll+WIS to take the physical 
form of a god, on a 10+ those who see it are convinced you are 
the real deal, on a 7-9 the effect is temporary and your audience 
will realize what you’ve done as soon as it wears off.

The Runecaster

I know a twelfth one

if I see up in a tree,

a dangling corpse in a noose

I can so carve and color the runes,

that the man walks

and talks with me.

 

Hávamál , Codex Regius


Pain

Sun

Ice

Gold


Person

Season

Gift

Livestock


Water

Joy

Possession

Giant


Divine

Beginning

Death

Gods


Storm

Justice

Horse

Mystery


Journey

Need

Elk

Day

 The Runecaster boasts the rare gift of literacy and has 
learned use runes to tap into the magic of creation. This 
mystical ability comes from the Norns, the terrifying keepers of 
fate, at once beautiful and horrifying. Usually at some astronomical 
cost, a Norn will impart the secrets (where the word 
‘rune’ itself comes from) to a willing and respectful pupil. A 
Runecaster weaves spells with wit and skill, etching them into 
tablets or stones to serve as powerful amulets or even as deadly 
traps. 

When you pay the heavy price required by a Norn (or other 
divine keeper of fate) you gain access to the preceding list of 
runes.

You also take this move:

Inscribe

When you alter the flow of reality, roll +WIS. on a 7-9 you can 
inscribe one rune into a surface to cause a subtle effect with a 
cost. Tell the GM what you hope to achieve. On a 10+ you can 
perform the subtle magic at no cost.

For every additional level you reach, you may choose one:

Add Rune

You may now add an additional rune when you Inscribe. You 
may keep taking this move as you level up and the effect stacks.

Bar Entry

When you carve a complex systems of runic wardings on a 
portal, no one you wish to keep out will be able to cross the 
threshold.

Devil’s Cage

When you lure someone into standing within a runic circle 
(concealed or otherwise) they become trapped inside the borders 
by an invisible, intangible wall until the rune itself is damaged or 
broken.

Unwitting Activation:

When you inscribe runes you may choose to have them activate 
when they are read by an unsuspecting victim/beneficiary. They 
do not need to be spoken aloud, simply that they are read makes 
the effect real.

 A note about runes: The runes used here are 
mostly the Elder Furthark set, most commonly found on 
artifacts from the 2-8th centuries bce. There are also two other 
major derivative sets: the Younger Furthark and the Furthorc 
variant that were used in the later medieval ages. The historical 
value of these runes and our ability to read them is, frankly, 
priceless, and we’ve used them to unravel many mysteries of 
Norse culture. However, I must stress that knowing their 
modern conext and use is also incredibly important. Bear with 
me here for a quick contextual lesson:

 During the late 19th and early 20th centuries occultism 
experienced a resurgence of interest in Germany, bringing these 
runes as a mystical, culturally significant item to the forefront of 
a lot of German imaginations. While the interest in mysticism 
didn’t hold with a lot of the upper echelon of Nazis when they 
rose to power, their cultural symbolism was very attractive and 
can be seen in a lot of Nazi insignias and propaganda.

 The most commonly used and recognized runes in association 
with racist violence and neo-nazi propaganda are: which, 
usually seen in pairs, became the SS emblem and (specifically 
with serif/wings) which was also used in SS iconography. Please 
keep in mind the historical context when using these runes in 
your game and keep in mind that many modern neo-Nazi and 
violently racist organizations have appropriated runic iconography 
and actively use them today. For safety and courtesy, it's a 
good idea to double check that your players are okay with using 
them in-game and be aware of the association if you create any 
artistic assets that might have them prominently displayed. 

The Fae-Touched

Iarð skal rifna

ok upphiminn

Skarpåker Runestone

 There is a saying that only fools and the desperate broker 
deals with the fae. They unerringly benefit from each deal they 
make. Those who are bound to the fae are magically marked 
and sometimes take on fae-like characteristics from their dealings 
with them. Inevitably, there comes a time for those bound to 
a bargain to pay the price, however, and this is when fae sometimes 
show their true colors.

When you enter into a contract with a fae, in addition to the 
terms of the bargain, take the following:

Accord

Add a new bond describing your relationship to a fae and 
describe the physical mark the connection has left on your body 
(no shadow, color blind, etc). Any fae that see it recognize that 
you have had dealings with their kind before, for better or worse.

Fair Price

When you Aid (or Interfere) with another player, change the 
result to +2 if the player agrees to the price you demand.

For every additional level you reach, you may choose one:

Bound to the Earth

In any natural setting like a forest or open field, take +1 to any 
Discern Realities rolls performed there.

Flighty

You’re prone to lashing out when someone directly insults you 
thanks to the influence of the Fae, but take +1 ongoing against 
anyone who pays you blatant disrespect.

High Court

When you are about to take your Last Breath, you may give up 
that move permanently in order to call upon the Fae Court for 
assistance once. This is automatically a partial success. They 
will do what they can to remove you from imminent danger and 
stabilize you but there’s always the possibility of far-reaching 
consequences later.

The Voyager

Once the longships regrouped, only

Kolga’s Sisters could be heard crashing.

a sound as if swells and bluffs were bursting

Helgi had the high sails heightened,

the unfailing crew rallying through

the rollers, .gir’s dreaded daughters trying 

to over throw their stay-bridled sea-steeds.

Helgakviða Hundingsbana I, Poetic Edda

When you gain command of your own ship and the crew to 
man it, choose one of the following:

Conscript

Desperate times, desperate measures and all that. When you 
make port, roll +STR to conscript local sailors into your service. 
On a 10+ you gain 2 + your STR modifier people who are 
reasonably competent. On a 7-9, you gain 2 sailors who are 
passably competent. You may treat Conscripted as though they 
are recruits, though you will take a -1 to CHA rolls involving 
them. Remember that conscripted sailors are there against their 
will and are prone to mutinies if they suffer further mistreatment.


Sea Voyage 

Use Undertake a Perilous Journey to quantify a sea voyage, 
including naming three ‘officer’ roles- the quartermaster, the 
trailblazer, and the scout. Roll that move like normal except that 
for every 5 recruits you have manning your ship(s), you can add 
+1 to any officer roll.

Each time you level up, you may choose one:

Monster Hunter

Little is more exhilarating than chasing down and dragging back 
a colossal catch. With a little time and good weather, you can 
always find signs of a sea monster.

Ambassador

You’ve seen strange lands and strange people with strange goods 
and customs. Whenever you make port, roll +CHA. On a 10+ 
the locals treat you as a friend and ply you with gifts and open 
trading until you give them a reason to dislike you. On a 7-9, 
they’re wary but can still be convinced to trade with a show of 
kindness or interesting gift. You’ll have a very hard time using 
Ambassador and Conscript in the same port, but it’s not 
impossible, strictly speaking.

The Úlfhéðnar

Who are they that wade out into battle?

Wolf-skinned they are called.

Haraldskvæði

 There’s no animal more dangerous than one who is hurt 
or one who is protecting young. The Bearskin with someone 
to protect becomes an Úlfhéðnar- wolf-hooded. The Bearskin’s 
natural talents do not lend themselves to defensive fighting, so 
the berserker must be driven to great need before taking their 
solemn vow of guardianship.

When a Bearskin vows to try and use their frenzied strength 
to protect a specific charge, take the following:

Sworn

When you put yourself in between a threat and the person 
you’ve sworn to shield, roll +STR. On a 10+ the enemy realizes 
you’re the biggest threat to them and you shift their attention 
away from who you’re protecting. On a 7-9, you take the 
damage intended for your charge. On a miss, you’ve just 
revealed your biggest weakness to the enemy.


Each time you level up, you may choose one:

Oathkeeper

When you take your Last Breath and your charge is still alive 
and in immediate danger and the result is a miss, treat it as a 7-9. 
Death will have a hefty bargain for you but they’ll let you try to fulfill your oath.

Frenzy

When your charge takes damage from an attack, your blood-lust 
rockets to previously unheard of level of violence and triggers a 
Bloodrush automatically. Anything between you and the source 
of damage- including your charge or other allies- will take 1D6 
damage for being in the way. If you hurt your charge in the 
chaos you immediately shift back to a Docile state and cannot 
use another Bloodrush until you Make Camp. This supersedes 
any moves that can reactivate a Bloodrush.

Lion Tamer

When you are in a Docile state, spending time with your charge 
while they are safe and uninjured will let you regain the ability 
to activate Bloodrush after a short rest.

The Unsavage

If someone speaks dishonor to another man... they shall meet where three 
roads meet. If he who has spoken comes and not the insulted one, then he 
shall be as he’s called: no rights to swear oaths, no right to bear witness, may 
it concern man or woman.

Hednalagen, Pagan Law

When you publicly disregard the conventions of honor to 
your own benefit and show no shame, take the following:

Holmgang

In any settlement, someone may demand an honor-duel with 
you. You can refuse at the risk of more poor treatment and -1 
to Outstanding Warrants when you return. You can also accept 
and fight the challenger, fully armed, with intent to incapacitate. 
If you win, take +1 forward to Parley rolls in this location and 
the loser must offer up recompense for the insult (the GM will 
decide what).


Each time you level up, you may choose one:

Ergi

You’ve been branded as docile and spineless which makes others 
think you’re an easy target. Prove them wrong or play it to your 
benefit. Because of your reputation, fighters and soldier types 
will always be willing to believe that you will need protection in 
combat.

No Tales of Cowards

You’ve gained the reputation for putting your life above the valor 
of dying in battle. When using your experience evaluating the 
danger of a given situation, take +1 to Discern Realities rolls.

Outdweller

Odin was once branded as Ergi too and this makes him sympathetic 
to your standing. When you are threatened with immediate, 
mortal danger, you can call out to Odin to preserve your 
life, healing 1D8 damage instantly. Once you are in relative 
safety, prepare an honorary sacrifice thanking him or prepare to 
face his wrath. This ability cannot be triggered again until the 
sacrifice has been seen to.

The Ghost Rider

It sates itself on the life-blood of fated men,

paints red the powers’ homes

with crimson gore.

 Völuspá, Poetic Edda

 While Hunters worship the Wild Hunt and spend their 
lives trying to gain access to it, anyone with a strong enough 
sense of justice and a disregard for conventional means can earn 
their place. The Horned Rider only wants to see sentences 
carried out and that misdeeds are paid for in blood.

When you earn your place in the Wild Hunt as a phantom 
vigilante, take the following:

Moonlight Rider

Under moonlight, your body takes on a spectral fire and your 
face goes skeletal. The sight of you in this form will send almost 
anyone fleeing and it inspires terror in any who see it. Take +2 
to all Parley rolls in this form using your intimidation as leverage.



Posse

When you summon the specters of ghostly hunters to frighten or 
intimidate, take +1 against any who lay eyes on them. The 
spirits cannot physically interact with the world but they will 
scare the piss out of anyone or anything that sees them.

Each time you level up, you may choose one:

Draw it Out

In a way, you’re an assassin but you’re not out for a silent kill and 
a clean getaway. You’re an executioner and you want this to be 
a spectacle. Mark your target before a combat encounter. Once 
you’re attacking them, do an additional 1D4 damage on successful 
Hack & Slash rolls against them in an effort to maximize the 
pain of each hit and get them squealing.

Known to All

When you make a show of dragging your victim to the eager 
hunting party, you can use the terror it inspired as leverage in 
any Parley attempt made in this location or against any who 
witnessed it.
