Concerning Vikings

In this year... came first three ships of Norwegians from 
Hørthaland and then the reeve rode thither and tried to compel 
them to go to the royal manor, for he did not know what they 
were: and then they slew him. These were the first ships of the 
Danes to come to England

Entry 787, the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle

 Despite what Hollywood films and pulpy comics would 
have you believe, we currently have very few verifiable facts 
about Vikings. The vast majority of what we know about 
Vikings and the Norse people, in general, comes from a post-
Christianization world view, which isn’t particularly helpful 
when trying to assemble facts about pagan societies. 

 Surviving accounts from the British Isles are where we 
picked up the term “Viking”, which means pirate, or raider. 
Alternatively, “Norse” is a fairly nondescript term that derives 
from “North”, which obviously doesn’t tell us a whole lot about 
what else Vikings did besides sail south and sack villages. We 
know that Norse people were spread out over a large chunk of 
Europe and the term referred to a few different groups of 
people as a kind of overarching reference. Norse people 
primarily inhabited Scandinavia and over the course of several 
centuries, raided all along the British Isles, France, Spain, Italy, 
Turkey, and as far south as Iraq (which is a hell of a long way 
from Scandinavia in the early medieval period). Norse people 
were also not the only cultural group living in Scandinavia 
during their heyday. 

 Christian monks first wrote about Viking raids on English 
land in 790A.D. (though there is evidence of Viking activity in 
other areas from earlier dates) and the aptly named “Viking Age” 
lasted until the Norman conquest of England in 1066A.D., at 
which point all of the Scandinavian kingdoms had been converted 
to Christianity and were swiftly assimilating into the rest of 
overarching Christian-European culture. There’s a great deal of 
nuance and detail in this time period that paints a much more 
intricate picture, though, if you find yourself inclined to research 
the not-fantasy version of these intrepid warriors, explorers, and 
heathens.

 Typically, Norse fantasy worlds tend to aesthetically 
match up on a point somewhere between these two dates 
unless you’re looking to make a purely fantastic setting with 
some horned helmets tossed in. In creating Stromgard, I 
imagined a world closer to the 790s end with mineral and alloy 
scarcity and developing iron working techniques. But, as was 
my goal for Stromgard as a setting, it is flexible and customizable 
and could comfortably exist at either end of this period. The 
GM need only adjust minor details to give it the feel they’re 
going for. In Stromgard’s playtesting, I found one of the most 
surefire ways to communicate its historical placement to the 
players was in how easy it was to obtain iron weapons- make 
any fully iron swords and axes that aren’t starting equipment 
expensive or available only as gifts from the wealthy if you want 
to run a Scandinavian iron age setting. This tells the PCs to 
treat their weapons with care or they’ll be carving spears by the 
fireside all night. Conversely, make these weapons easier to 
obtain for a more recognizable, fantasy-medieval feel. Stromgard 
handles both quite easily and only requires a little adjustment to 
carry campaigns based on real historical events.

 I can’t stress enough, however, that there’s no need for 
GMs to choose a historical point from which to base their 
games. If you’re like me, your table is probably host to at least a 
few players who are sticklers for historical accuracy (what 
little can be drummed up in this case), so picking a recognizable 
point of reference might surprise and delight them. Consider 
your party’s interests and expectations and use that to choose a 
reference point if you wish. Set your campaign closer to 790 for 
a feel that more closely matches up with the Scandinavian iron 
age aesthetic of rough hewn weapons and fully pagan beliefs or 
at the 1066 end of the spectrum if you’re looking for more widespread 
military campaigns, political gains, and more global social 
forces. If perilous exploration is more your style, Erik the Red 
landed in Greenland in 980 (where Vikings continued to live for 
nearly five hundred years). There’s plenty of evidence to support 
the assumption that these Norse people traded with local Native 
groups, specifically the Beothuk (who are related to the 
Algonquin) and the Thule- both considered to be the ancestors 
of the Inuit people. Furthermore, Bjarni Herjólfsson and Leif 
Erikson landed on continental North American soil first in 985 
and then again in 1000.

 Culture obviously follows the sliding scale as well with 
more pagan sensibilities on the 790s end and a more recognizable 
Christian world view on the other. When pinning down 
your preferred time period, consider the purpose of religion 
and spirituality in your setting. What gods were revered and 
why? During their travels, how did voyagers honor their gods 
in foreign lands? What about strange new gods? Could these 
encounters have been peaceful or were they invariably bloody? 
Women warriors were also regarded with increasing contention 
as Christianity spread, its emphasis on the role of women as 
subservient to men influenced a woman’s ability to sail and fight 

with the rest of their village’s able-bodied warriors. The spread 
of Christianity brought harsh punishments for any perception of 
non-heterosexual romantic relationships which makes uncovering 
the pagan values that served as the cornerstone of 790s (and 
earlier) society difficult to uncover. Stromgard has many 
cultures and many races with more pagan-rooted societal norms 
as a default, mostly because it's more interesting to explore the 
world as it could be in role-playing and fantasy, rather than stick 
to societal norms that still exist in basically the same form today.

 Speaking of religion (that’s a quality segue right there), 
what do we know about Norse religio/cult traditions? Basically 
nothing. Well, that’s not entirely true but it’s very close. We 
have burial mounds and artifacts and runestones left behind that 
give us sparing details to how these people functioned culturally. 
While Vikings were actively tearing up the European coasts, the 
only accounts that survived were from the victims’ perspectives. 
Which is why the image of a savage, bloodthirsty barbarian 
still sticks with the vast majority of Norse imagery today. Also 
consider the fact that any cultural accounts the Vikings kept of 
themselves were interpreted by people trying to convert them 
and actively fighting to strengthen the hold of syncretism in 
Northern Europe.

 Many scholars over many centuries have translated and 
re-translated runes and stories. Along the way they make small 
changes, whether intentionally or otherwise, that slowly but 
surely change the original message, the original subtly, and the 
original intent of the work. There’s a certain amount of this 
that’s unavoidable in anthropology, unfortunately, but as it 
stands our summarized knowledge of all Norse lore comes from 
a massive game of Telephone that we’ve been playing for 
centuries. We can account, however, for a lot of things through 

the number of fairly reliable sources- Thor, Odin, Loki, and 
Baldr were all prominent gods, of course, but why is Odin 
often likened to a shepherd? Why the constant push to 
categorize Loki, a trickster, into either a “Overall Righteous” or 
a “Overall Evil” box? Was Frigg always one goddess, independent 
as a matron of visions and wisdom? Or was she once two 
people, Frigg and Freya, whose domains saw some overlap? Is 
the concept of ergi (sexual receptivity used to specifically refer to 
male witches and seers) a complex pagan idea or a newer 
Christian sensibility to demonize non-conformers? What is the 
difference between dwarves and ‘black elves’? Is there a 
difference?

 The honest and painful answer is that we don’t know and 
likely never will. Too much has been lost to time and too many 
cooks have been in the proverbial kitchen. New discoveries and 
understandings are always possible but without any surviving 
context or the ability to truly analyze this culture without a 
modern bias, our work is going to be exceedingly difficult.

 Stromgard is believable and detailed and dynamic because 
it was created from what sources we do have. I wanted 
Stromgard to feel real above all else. I wanted Stromgard to be 
a robust fantasy setting that could hold up to some escapism. I 
wanted it to provide an interesting background for heroic player 
characters and interesting societies. I wanted it to subvert some 
fantasy convention and I wanted it to be a new experience. To 
do this, though, I had to strongly root it in real sources, in the 
surviving lore and mythos from twelve hundred years ago. 

 Stromgard took most of its inspiration from literary 
sources, The Poetic Edda chief among them. The Poetic Edda is 
an uncredited collections of myths and poems that originated 
in some form at a much earlier date and whose text is primarily 
taken from the famous medieval manuscript, the Codex Regius, 
which to this day remains one of the most (if not the most) 
important preservations of Scandinavian lore still in existence. 
The Codex Regius text was (re)discovered in 1643 and dates back 
to the twelfth century. There are many tales included in this 
Edda, including Völuspá, the tale of the Seer who prophesied 
Ragnarök for Odin, Lokasenna, a tale of Loki’s tribulations, 
written in a specific verse alluding to wisdom, and Baldr’s 
draumar, a narration of Baldr’s dreams and visions, plus more 
than a dozen others.

 The other Edda- The Prose Edda- was compiled by 

Snorri Sturluson possibly as early as 1220. The Prose Edda 
contains a detailed description of the Norse tree of life and the 
many planes on which its denizens live as well as a veritable 
wealth of common myths. It primarily consists of three 
separate books and was intended to be compiled as a textbook. 
The two Eddas together make up the vast majority of our 
collective knowledge of the Norse- and both of these Eddas were 
written or compiled long after the Vikings ceased to exist.

 Stromgard’s other primary inspirations were many of the 
numerous Icelandic Sagas and Beowulf- which is probably the 
most widely known introduction to Viking lore via the Geats 
and the Danes. What makes Beowulf unique is that it is likely 
the oldest surviving long-form story in English literature and is 
mandatory reading in most high school and college literature 
classes. Beowulf survives in full as part of the Nowell Codex and 
the timeline of its creation is still hotly debated- which is 
typically dated between 700-1000A.D. while the physical 
manuscript’s creation falls somewhere between 976-1010A.D. 
with plenty of room for academic debates in between. You can 
see the pattern here of ‘we discovered this story written hundreds 
of years after its setting existed’ kind of throws a big wrench in 
the process of reconstructing lost societies.

 If you like Norse lore or the real history of the Vikings, 
you may want to check out these literary sources. If nothing 
else, they’ll certainly serve as a fun inspiration for things to add 
to other RPGs, even beyond Stromgard, and give you insight 
on how to incorporate realism to make your fantasy world seem 
even more believable. Check out your local university’s library 
or even just browse Wikipedia if you’re looking for some lightweight, 
easily verifiable facts. I would, however, advise against 
rooting your campaign too rigidly in the concept of 100% 
watertight, historical accuracy. Part of the charm and magic of 
the Norse setting is, well, magic. With Vikings, reconstructing 
their history just isn’t possible. But that certainly doesn’t mean 
you can’t take heavily from academia and anthropologists who 
have spent innumerable hours trying to piece the Vikings’ legacy 
together.
