 Equipment

In the night went men,

in studded corslets,

their shields glistened

in the waning moon.

Völundarkviða, Poetic Edda

 The arms and armor of Stromgard are simple and rustic at 
best. Virtually every man, woman, and child carries at least one 
weapon on them at all time. Even slaves are permitted by law to 
carry knives on them. However, there is also a large disparity of 
wealth, which separates most arms and armor into ‘wealthy’ and 
‘peasant’ equipment. With iron and steel coming at high cost 
and limited availability, most soldiers of the land must make due 
with what’s available to them.

 Wealthy fighters and distinguished veterans of many 
successful raids typically go into battle wearing full regalia- a 
helmet, mail shirt, shield, sword, and bow. Soldiers will less 
resources tend to favor spears and axes, cloth or leather armor (if 
they can afford it), and the poorest combatants tend to favor the 
still-deadly sling, wood cutting axes, and whatever clothes they 
wear on their back. Tools that can double as weapons are also 
extremely popular.

 GMs should flex their creativity when determining 
scarcity and value of both mundane and arcane equipment. Real 
Vikings typically relied on barter, not coin, and games can have 
wildly different tones and challenges as economic factors are 
tweaked.  
 
 It should be noted that not every playbook character 
begins with coins in The Wyrd of Stromgard- instead, that 
starting boon is really only provided to characters who would 
likely have access to excess material wealth based on their 
cultural or professional background. PCs who do not start with 
coin will need to either earn some or barter- whether by using 
items or resources picked up in earlier adventures or by providing 
services like protection, spellwork, or even information.

Ordinary Weapons

Yew Bow near, 10 coins, 1 weight

Flexible, lightweight longbow with high accuracy over a decent 
range.

Elm Bow near, far, 70 coins, 2 weight

Huge, heavy bow with an immense range.

Barbed Arrows x3 ammo, +1 piercing, 25 coins, 1 weight

Thorny arrows that get lodged into targets and leave deep 
wounds if not removed by a skilled, patient hand.

Bone Arrows x3 ammo, +1 dmg, 25 coins, 1 weight

Intentionally brittle arrows that splinter upon impact, rending 
flesh and making the shards difficult to remove.

Winged Spear reach, +1 dmg, 35 coins, 2 weight

Thrusting/cutting weapon, two handed. The wings at the base 
of the head are designed to aid in pinning or trapping enemy 
limbs as well as parrying shields.

Hewing Spear reach, 25 coins, 2 weight

Heavy spear, two handed, for thrusting/cutting.

Atgeir reach, +1 piercing, 75 coins, 2 weight

A heavy spear with a long reach. An expensive item that is 
considered a status symbol. Thrusting/cutting weapon.

Bill Hook close, 15 coins, 1 weight

A short polearm with a hooked and bladed iron head. Suitable 
for thrusting, cutting, slashing and also climbing.

Seax close, 5 coins, 1 weight

A long, straight-bladed knife similar to a machete or short 
gladius.

Hand Axe thrown, near, close, 3 coins, 1 weight

Throwable, lightweight axe with a single blade edge that serves 
well even as a primary weapon.

Dane Axe reach, close, +1 dmg, 30 coins, 2 weight

This axe is nearly six feet tall and requires two hands to wield 
with any competence. The iron head is heavy and expensive but 
durable and extremely deadly.

Sling near, 2 coins, 1 weight

A cheap but very reliable and very popular weapon for poor 
warriors. Keep some stones on hand for ammo or pick them up 
off the ground as you need them.

Ordinary Armor

Round Alder Shield +1 armor, 20 coins, 2 weight

Sturdy and lightweight shield that will see you through many 
a battle. You can remount the boss on to new wood when the 
shield has taken too much abuse.

Reinforced Round Shield +2 armor, 60 coins, 3 weight

A round shield that has been reinforced with leather padding 
and iron splints. It is heavy for its size but still maneuverable.

Kite Shield +2 armor, 70 coins, 3 weight

This long, heavy shield was inspired by foreign armaments and is 
best suited for mounted combat. Creative types may still find 
interesting ways to use it in close quarters.

Scale Lamellar 3 armor, worn, clumsy, 250 coins, 3 weight

This heavy shirt is a dream for most poor warriors but if you 
can buy one, you’ll enjoy sturdy protection while leaving both 
hands free. Most lamellar chest pieces consist of many plates of 
iron sewn together and worn over a heavy cloth tunic or shirt. 
Its weight has the added effect of helping you stay warm in the 
wilderness.

Mail Shirt 2 armor, worn, 50 coins, 1 weight

Cheaper than a lamellar piece, a mail shirt will still do a decent 
job protecting you from stabs, though it is markedly less 
effective against slashes and blunt force trauma.

Gambeson 1 armor, worn, 15 coins, 1 weight

Both for warmth and for some protection, a Gambeson is a 
thick shirt padded with wool and quilt-stitched for durability. 
Like leathers, it's not the sturdiest but it's definitely is better 
than nothing.

Splintmail 2 armor, clumsy, worn, 60 coins, 1 weight

Pieces of leather splinted and bound into a shirt, influenced by
foreign soldiers’ garb.

Steinnr 1 armor, clumsy, worn, 2 coins, 3 weight

Two flat pieces of stone tied to hang over the chest and back. 
Stupidly impractical but better than nothing.

Everyday Items

Dice 12 coins, 1 weight

Ten six-sided dice carved from auroch bone in a small wooden 
case. Many games can be played with these, which are familiar 
to just about everyone in Stromgard.

Set of scales and weights 25 coins, 1 weight

Dealing often with fine metal coins will necessitate the ownership 
of one of these as without it you will have to trust that coin 
or ingots contain as much valuable metal as they should.

Piece of fine gold jewelry 40 coins

Cloak pins or hair pieces are popular and usually bear the 
emblem or motif of a noteworthy bloodline or deed from someone’s 
past. Pendants, bracelets, small, plain diadems, and rings 
also make great investments as mementos or keepsakes.

Small metalworking tools 65 coins, 1 weight

This travel-sized set allows the owner to work on small metal 
repairs and includes an assortment of files, tongs, tweezers, a 
detailing stylus, and small hammer.

Lockpicks 50 coins. x3 uses

This small set of delicate picks can be used to open a nonmagical 
luck as long as you have a dexterous hand. Their durability is 
quite low, however, so take care in their use.

Carving knife 20 coins, 1 weight

A handsome, bone-handled carving knife sure to impress the 
guests of your next feast.

Drinking horn 15 coins, 1 weight

A large horn to keep alcohol in. A craftsmen spent a good deal 
of time burning an intricate pattern into the lip.

Hunting horn 10 coins, 1 weight

Hung from a leather strap, this hunting horn blasts a deafeningly 
loud, clear note that can be heard for nearly 8m/13km.

Set of runes Starts at 25 coins, 1 weight

A set of runes, no matter the material, will set you back a little. 
A craftsmen literate in the arcane symbols must painstakingly 
carve each by hand. Many magic-users prefer semi-precious 
stones to aid in their channeling of fate but for others ordinary 
stone or bone serves just fine.

Symbol of devotion to a deity

 Iron 35 coins

 Copper 20 coins

 Wood/Bone/Shell 5 coins

Many carry symbols of their favored deity in many materials. It 
carries the bonus of letting others know how to deal with your 
corpse should you die in battle.

Selection of iron beads for hair 15 coins

Well groomed hair is considered an attractive trait in most 
people but especially in warriors and even more especially in 
men.

Chokeberry wine 4 coins, 1 weight

This piquant forest berry wine comes in a leather skin and can 
be expended for 1 Ration in a pinch.

Fishing rod, line, and hook 3 coins, 1 weight

Fishing, both in the sea and in fresh water, is a less labor-intensive 
way to feed a few people, though you’ll be at the mercy of 
the water’s fluctuating bounty.

Snowshoes 15 coins, 1 weight

Made from wooden slats and sinew, these wide shoes are an 
absolute nightmare for trying to move quietly or dexterously but 
they will keep you from expending extra energy by keeping you 
on top of snow instead of trudging through it. Your calves will 
thank you.

Skis 25 coins, 2 weight

Cross-country skiing is a viable way to travel the lowlands and it 
cuts foot travel time by almost half.

Tattooing needles 30 coins

Packed into a case made from horn, these long needles will last 
through a few tattoos before needing to be replaced.

Cloak pin 35 coins 

A person’s cloak pin can say a lot. It normally carries their crest 
or something notable from their history in their intricate design.

Comb 10 coins

Most combs were made of either wood or bone, with handsome 
designs carved into the smooth surface.

Common Services

Tattooing Starts at 15 coins 

The price of a tattoo rises steeply with its size and intricacy.

Grooming 5 coins

Warriors returning home from conquest are required to take part 
in cleansing and purifying rituals, heavily influenced by foreign 
religious customs. It does wonders to attract romantic attention.

Fresh meal

 Meat, cheese, buttered vegetables, bread 8 coins

 Fowl, turnips, and pickles 5 coins

 Dried or preserved fish, fruit, and nuts 3 coins

These meals aren’t ideal to be used as rations as they will spoil 
quickly. They are the kinds of meals you might see while 
enjoying the hospitality of a generous head of house.

Ferry service 15 coins

Bartering local passage is generally fairly inexpensive, so long as 
you don’t leave the Stromgard border. Most anyone who owns a 
boat would be willing to trade labor for passage as well.

Passage to the southern countries Starts at 45 coins

Travel by ship is the fastest way to leave Stromgard for the 
southern countries that get ransacked during raiding season and 
even further beyond. The open ocean is dangerous, however, 
and most sea captains would rather take a nonrefundable deposit 
as insurance in case you die.

Custom commissioned weapon

 Mundane/Martial Starts at 110 coins

 Enchanted Add minimum 85 coins

Custom arms and armor cost a fortune in Stromgard but they 
are the best way to broadcast your station and wealth. Material 
is the heftiest factor in cost and different weapons will need 
varying amounts. A spearhead will need less iron than most 
swords, for instance. Rarer materials are also available for 
forging, though their price will reflect how difficult they can be 
to work with.

Adding enchantment on to a weapon is possible, provided you 
know an enterprising hedgewitch or shaman willing to make a 
deal. Expect to pay them handsomely for their services.

Legendary Items

Andvaranaut - A beautiful engraved ring of solid gold that 
can be used to turn mundane ore into gold every sixth day. 
Whoever wears it will attract misfortune and disaster, however.

Bornholm Amulet - A round silver amulet that appears to 
have been a foreign coin at one point. Engraved harshly with 
runes, this charm will let anyone wearing it communicate with 
foreign language speakers as though there was no language 
barrier.

Brísingamen - This fine golden collar is inset with amber in 
the shape of the crescent moon and is a personal treasure of the 
goddess Freya. Once per day, the wearer may cast the Wizard 
spell Sleep but it has a 25% chance of attracting the attention of 
Freya, who would like her amulet back.

Dainsleif - A cursed sword that must take a life every time it is 
unsheathed. The wounds it inflicts are either immediately lethal 
or will cause a wound that can never fully heal. A wielder that 
does not satisfy the blade after drawing it is cursed to spill their 
own blood on it. 

Base Bonuses: +4 Damage, 2 weight

Draupnir - A heavy gold ring that creates multiples of itself if 
it is exposed to moonlight. The copies seem valuable, for a short 
time, but after a day or so of exposure to sunlight, they rust 
away into nothing, with only the original remaining.

Eitr - An extraordinarily rare and immensely powerful arcane 
substance. This ethereal liquid is the essence of life itself and can 
be distilled into pure miracles. Its misuse could be catastrophic 
as it is exceedingly volatile. It is kept under tight guard in 
Asgard, where the gods attempt to not only keep it from 
mortals, but from Jötnar as well.

Eldhrímnir - A cauldron that’s said to be able to bring dead 
bodies back to life at a terrible cost if they are steeped inside the 
black maw of this monstrosity. The only way to undo the cursed 
and cruel magic of the cauldron is to sacrifice someone willing 
to its dark appetite.

Gambanteinn - A powerful bastard sword with a black iron 
blade that curses whomever it strikes with great misfortune for 
the rest of their life while it simultaneously turns its wielder to 
rampant evil. People of pure and divine natures or those with a 
holy background are particularly susceptible to the powerful 
corruption in this blade.

Base Bonuses: +2 Damage, 2 Weight, Two-handed, corrupts the 
wielder slowly.

Gjallarhorn - A huge horn that can be heard across all Nine 
Realms and is said to summon aid from all corners if it is used 
by a true and just person.

Gleipnir - Barbed, evil looking manacles that can be used to 
bind any prisoner, even if they are a god or otherwise non-
corporeal.

Gormson’s Gold Disc - This heavy gold disc has a spell 
inscribed in it, allowing the holder to cast the Cleric spell Speak 
With the Dead once per day.

Járngreipr - Heavy iron gauntlets that let you wield monstrously 
huge weapons with ease. Treat all weapons as though they had the Precise and 
Forceful tags.

Gadfly’s Delight - A tiny magical gadfly 
in a small glass jar. When uncorked, it will 
immediately disappear from sight only to 
reappear at the most opportune moment to 
sting someone in the eyeball precisely when 
it will cause the most distress and chaos.

Mead of Poetry - The Mead of Poetry is magical liquid that 
bestows immense knowledge and cleverness. Whoever 
imbibes it will l earn something they needed 
to know or be able to solve a problem that had previously stumped 
them.

Shard of Bifrost - A shard of the Bifrost, broken off by the 
legendry Mjolnir and forged into a blade by dwarves. This blade 
always glows a pale blue and is famed for its icy cold bite, famed 
to be as harsh as the night-winds of Jötunheim.

Base Bonuses: +3 Damage, 1 weight, wounds inflicted with the 
Shard will become frostbitten if not immediately 
dressed.

Shard of Gungnir - A splintered spear haft and heavy iron 
head. Its immense size seems impossible to wield but it glows 
softly under moonlight and, if held aloft, will reflect light in the 
general direction of your destination.

Singing Stone - There are said to be many Singing Stones 
throughout the land. These small amulets or tablets are 
enchanted to recite a certain poem or few lines of text whenever 
the wearer wishes.

Svalinn - An intangible shield of pure light that is said to 
appear to people in times of great crisis and violence. Svalinn 
is most suited for diverting fire and lethal blows against the just 
and true.

Skidbladnir - A collapsible ship enchanted to fit inside a 
drinking horn. Once the wearer decides they need a ship, they 
simply pour the horn out over the ocean and a full sized drakkar 
appears. When they wish to return the ship, they need only to 
try and scoop it out of the water with the horn.

Tooth of Jörmungandr - An odd white-bladed sword carved 
from the tooth of the World Serpent. This sword is incredibly 
light for its size and requires almost no upkeep. Its wickedly 
shaped edge and unique color make it extremely recognizable.

Base Bonuses: +3 Damage, +2 Piercing, 1 weight

Undyne’s Haft - A long, handsome spear with a barbed head, 
once a simple fishing tool. Its heavy shaft is now the vessel for 
a mermaid’s soul, which sings out to the denizens of the oceans 
both great and small. This also allows the wielder to understand 
the hearts of sea creatures and vice versa.

Base Bonuses: Reach, +1 Damage, Two-handed, 2 weight, +1 
Piercing, lets the bearer communicate with sea life in 
a rudimentary fashion
