GM’s Toolbox

The sword shall bite not

which thou bearest,

Till thy head itself

it sings about

Helgakviða, Poetic Edda

Staying on principles in Stromgard

 Staying on top of Dungeon World’s GM Principles is easy 
in Stromgard. Because the Wyrd of Stromgard isn’t a true hack, 
it still relies on these governing principles to guide and inform 
play. They are still crucial to the game’s cohesion and should be 
adhered to as much as humanly possible. If you’ve GM’d 
Dungeon World before, you’re probably very well acquainted 
with these. If Dungeon World is new to you, I recommend 
reading the official GM Principles first before reading these. I 
intended for these to be more of an extrapolation on them then 
a baseline. I do think revisiting them is worthwhile, however. 

Draw Maps, Leave Blanks - Truthfully, this one is possibly the 
most important in The Wyrd of Stromgard. As an expanded 
setting, a lot of work has been done to provide GMs and their 
players with a rich fantasy world where a great deal information 
has been laid out for easy use. Make sure that when you’re 
GMing The Wyrd of Stromgard setting that PCs are still shaping 
the environment as they explore it. If their Spout Lore moves 
conflict with something in the book, go with the players. If they 
need more or less steadings, differing cultural interactions, etc… 
Give them what they're interested in. It’s very important that 
they have agency in forming the world around them and letting 
them interact with the setting in meaningful ways will create fun 
and memorable games for everyone involved. Stromgard is a 
detailed place, sure, but there’s always, always room for customization 
and you should tailor the world to suit your players.

Address the Characters, not the Players - This one goes a long 
way and I ignored it a lot when I was a brand new GM. Firstly, 
it helps put all the players into a “ready-to-roleplay” mindset that 
actually cuts down on bad habits like meta-gaming. It also helps 
shed some clarity on whether a conversation is happening in 
game or not, which can be quite confusing when the stakes are 
high.

Embrace the Fantastic - Stromgard is ultimately a fantasy 
setting. Let it be so. Meticulously enforcing one hundred 
percent factual details in a fantasy game slows down the whole 
process and generally isn’t fun for anyone involved. Discuss 
details that need to be resolved but don’t worry about historical 
accuracy. 

Make a Move that Follows - The best way to visualize this 
principle is as a pendulum. There’s a natural push/pull in the 
narrative and for every action your PCs perform, there should 
be an equal motion reacting to it. Your PC failed a Hack & 
Slash so now an enemy can deal damage. Narratively, the enemy 
is reacting to the character’s missed or failed attack but from a 
mechanic perspective, an enemy can really only react to player 
choices, because the hard moves that cause damage or put the 
players in a bad spot are moves that follow player choice. The 
best moves to follow a player choice depend on the situation, 
of course, but ‘a move that follows’ should always be something 
that swings the narrative pendulum back, adjusting or changing 
the scenario before putting the ball back into the players’ court. 
I find that this helps guide my decisions on which hard or soft 
moves to make. If you’re ever stuck, I recommend revisiting this 
principle.

Never Speak the Name of Your Move - This one is self 
explanatory for the most part. Saying the move you’re going to 
make mutes your narrative power. It also breaks up the flow of 
storytelling, invites unneeded discussion, and disables the GM’s 
strongest tool- the ability to keep the players guessing and the 
narrative stakes high.

Give Every Monster Life - Not every monster is going to throw 
themselves at a tough party and fight to the death. Most will 
run away when they sustain grave damage. Some will try to 
stalk and pounce on the group or lure away a straggler. Don’t 
just assault your party with piles of stats under different names. 
Build narrative stakes, push them higher, challenge naiveté 
occasionally, make monsters break the mold, challenge your 
party’s preconceptions. 

Name Every Person - Similar to the above principle, it’s important 
that NPCs all have names. Bringing back NPCs the party 
has already met usually has pretty high narrative interest so be 
sure to give your NPCs a name and a couple facts about how 
they live and their appearance/demeanor.

Ask Questions and Use the Answers - I recommend formally 
starting each session by asking the PCs a few questions about 
their characters and how they are reacting to the campaign narrative- 
make a note of the answers you get. These sessions will 
reveal what your players are interested in and what they enjoy 
about their characters... which should supply you with hooks to 
use later. But even if that’s not your style you need to be asking 
your players at least a few questions a session about the world 
and their characters- they should be asking you and each other a 
few, too. Nothing’s more gratifying than playing to your PCs by 
bringing something they were interested in into more emphasis 
in-game.

Be a Fan of the Characters - Each session, try to give each PC 
a moment or two in the spotlight. Construct scenes where they 
shine. Don’t let this hold you back from letting them fail or face 
consequences, however. Even mythical heroes have their low 
points. Keep the stakes high but give your PCs the stage.

Think Dangerous - The ‘sadistic GM’ cliche creates a very 
‘player vs GM’ environment that can be stressful and not very 
fun. Raise the stakes with your PCs’ actions but root them 
heavily in the world so that the PCs better grasp that the danger 
is in the world itself, not in your enactment of it. Conversely, 
don’t be afraid to kill PCs either, such is the dangers of 
adventuring afterall, but let it be dramatic and fulfilling. 
Consequences, not sadism, is the key. 

Begin and End with the Fiction - Keep your PCs immersed. 
Keep yourself immersed by starting sessions with action or 
immediate conflict. Set the scene and then end the session at 
logical dramatic dips wherever possible. I personally recommend 
using cliffhangers as end points sparingly but that’s simply 
a matter of style.

Think Off-screen, Too - Always make sure that your monsters, 
factions, people, etc are moving and living their lives when they 
aren’t a part of the immediate scene. Nomads move on, seasons 
change, people don’t wait around for adventurers to return to 
ask for clues. The real world is ever changing, so too should 
Stromgard.

Tips for GMs

 Being the ringleader for a game night RPG session can 
be a very rewarding experience as you help your players roleplay 
awesome characters and weave intense stories. It can also be 
super stressful and nerve-wracking, especially for those of us 
with anxieties regarding roleplaying, public speaking, or just 
social situations in general. Unfortunately, it’s a bit of a learning 
curve if you’re new to tabletop RPGs. There’s lots of podcasts 
and live-play streaming channels to check out before your first 
game, however, and I strongly recommend that you do to check 
out how the pros run games and also to start developing your 
own unique game management style.

 For experienced GMs, Dungeon World can sometimes 
throw veterans for a loop with narrative-focused rules and the 
priority the mechanics put on the fiction. For Dungeon World 
players and GMs who are already familiar with the system, 
wrangling new players can sometimes feel like herding cats. 
Because of the general difficulty in GMing for the first time as 
well as the challenges many experienced players and GMs find, 
I included this section of tips and tricks that might help organize 
play and streamline your game nights. These strategies have 
helped engage my players and make my GMing more efficient 
and with any luck, they’ll work as well for you.

Group Management

 Playing RPGs with people from all walks of life is one of 
the greatest things about the medium. Everyone’s interpretation 
of standard classes and fantasy tropes is different and that’s one 
of the highlights of running games to me. There can sometimes 
be challenges in managing a very diverse group of people but 
with a tiny bit of forethought, it’s quite easy to get everyone on 
the same page and set the standard for open and honest communication 
between everyone involved.

 Before you even create your characters, hold a mini-
meeting with your players. This doesn’t have to be in person and 
shouldn’t take more than a couple minutes or a few brief emails. 
Ask your players what kind of story elements they’re interested 
in roleplaying, ask them what level of gore and violence they’re 
comfortable with. Ask them if they have anything they’d like to 
not roleplay up front or any graphic/intense content that they’d 
rather not deal with. Let them talk to you privately if they’d 
rather not say in front of the group. Then, respect that they 
confided in you and oblige their desire to avoid certain types 
of content. I also make it clear to my players that if anything 
starts to go somewhere in game that they want to avoid, they 
can let me know and I’ll adjust, no questions asked. It is vital to 
welcome people of all backgrounds into RPGs and it isn’t hard 
to accommodate the occasional content request. Most importantly, 
as the GM, it is important to step in if a player is hassling 
another regarding content warnings or any requests to tone 
down the intensity. The GM’s position as the game leader does 
sort of translate to out of character conflicts sometimes and it is 
important that you foster an environment that is about fun and 
adventure. The expectation needs to be set that requests to adjust 
content be taken seriously by everyone involved. Once that 
baseline has been established, your players should find it very 
easy to follow and it will eliminate any unexpected issues that 
could make for a very un-fun evening. In actuality, I find that I 
rarely run into content the players object to but the more 
important thing here is that you’ve opened the floor to their 
input and will not only respectfully address any concerns, but it 
sets the standard the players should follow as well.

 While veteran GMs might find this old hat, it’s a good 
reminder to those less experienced that your players will all have 
individual tastes in terms of play styles, goals, and interests. You 
may also feel pressured to cater to all of your players simultaneously 
while running a game. In my experience the easiest way to 
approach this is to apply more of your focus on giving each 
character a few moments in the spotlight each session. Then, 
as you go further into long-running campaigns, continually ask 
them questions that inform you of what’s interesting them and 
make a point to bring it up in game. Most GMs can’t serve 
every player exactly what they want, but the best GMs are good 
at finding out what their players find gratifying and giving to 
them little bits at a time.

 

Character Development

 There are a few surefire ways to get your players creating 
sturdy, three dimensional characters that are interesting and 
complex. Unfortunately, they can feel a little counterintuitive. 

First and foremost, don’t do a heavy amount of character 
development before the first session or even during character 
creation. I know that might sound crazy but stick with me. 
When players do a massive amount of backstory and 
persona work before the game starts, it’s easy to accidentally 
make characters with epic or intense backgrounds that clash a 
little with whatever tasks you set a few level one characters to 
complete. Also, in my experience, the way we intend to play 
a character versus the way we end up actually playing a character 
can sometimes be quite different. I strongly recommend 
discouraging your players from doing any heavy brainstorming 
about their characters before the first session. I also strongly 
recommend that the group use the first session to all choose 
and create characters at the same time so that they can bounce 
ideas off of each other and create characters that are interwoven 
(sometimes tangibly, sometimes in a more abstract fashion) 
to some extent. You and your players should always be asking 
questions of each other to help extrapolate on details that could 
turn into hooks or moving emotional moments later on but 
don’t let character creation drag on for too long.

 Let the game run a session or two. By this point, you’ll 
probably have a lot of great hooks for each character plus you 
will have given enough time for the narrative stakes to raise and 
real tension to build. This is the ‘butter zone’ of character 
development. Let the intensity start to bloom at this point so 
there are real risks and there’s been enough time for the players 
to really start connecting with their characters. This also gives 
you a wide range of options in choosing exactly what situations 
would have the highest payoff for each individual character. 
Make the bearskin seriously consider fleeing, present the skald 
with a high stakes gamble on his honor, give your paladin a crisis 
of faith. This is the point with these narrative hooks will have 
the most impact.

Structuring Sessions

 Here is a very brief, very tentative outline for how I run 
longer sessions in Dungeon World. 

Session 0: Mini Groundwork - Take thirty-ish minutes or less 
to just lay out expectations. This step is still helpful for single-
session games, but the longer you intend to run with the same 
group, the more helpful this step is. Learn your player’s interests 
and dislikes, talk about they types of characters they’re interested 
in playing in and start brewing loose storylines for them to play 
in.

Session 1: Character Creation and Setting Framework - Spend 
the first part of your initial, full session creating characters. 
Some groups can do this in a couple minutes, some take about 
an hour, it just sort of depends on the interparty dynamics, 
class offerings, and general setting ideas. Try not to let this part 
exceed ninety-ish minutes so that you can save some character 
development for in-game. I usually run a pretty straightforward 
first session with an easy-to-understand goal. Let the party start 
to work out their team dynamic, make any adjustments to 
alignment as necessary and I suggest letting the session run until 
the team achieves their first main objective. I would also end 
this session on a high note to build anticipation for the next.

Session 2: Character Exploration and Setting- Before actually 
starting play, begin the game by asking each player some in-character questions to get a better feel for their personalities and 
goals. Try not to make these into a back-and-forth discussion. 
Let the player give you information and just file away anything 
interesting or exploitable for later. Some examples:

 Stormcaller, you immediately showed distrust for the Jarl in 
the last session. What was the reason for that?

 

 Fae, you mentioned last session that you come from a big 
family. What was that like?

 

 Crone, do you understand the nature of your powers or are 
you experimenting as you go?

 

 Bearskin, you mentioned that you have ritualistic tattoos, 
what do they signify?

 Use these answers while building the setting and your 
game’s narrative, let them inform you of what kind of hardships 
and problems your PCs should face.

Session 3 Onward: Full Swing - This is about where you can 
start going full force at you PCs, drawing more and more from 
them every game to build meaningful challenges and emotional 
connections. Once everyone is ready to play, do a character 
Q&A for a few minutes, but now start making it more specific 
and related to in-game actions. Also keep in mind that, if used 
cleverly, leading questions are also totally acceptable. Here’s 
some examples:

 

 Bearskin, you jumped between the Alfir and the Linnorm 
last game, what made you decide to protect her?

 

 Skald, you didn’t have time to retrieve the Ranger’s body after 
the hellhound killed her. You ran for your life. Did you 
perform any kind of tribute or funerary rites?

 

 Hunter, you murdered a local thug who was a fairly 
small-time target considering your skills. What made you 
decide to take him out?

 Using this format lets the whole group find connection 
and meaning in their actions. This might be a more involved 
structure for a lot of experienced players but I’ve found that 
it’s really helpful in keeping people in the fiction and it sort of 
becomes second nature after a few sessions. The rest of the game 
can sort of swing into this format as well and the GM can ask 
more or less questions as they need in addition to giving the 
PCs out-of-game time to discuss their relationships with each 
other. When most of the characters hit about level six, I tend 
to shift the nature of the questions even more towards plot and 
are much more action-specific. Use their answers to build hooks 
and increase the speed at which the stakes climb as the characters 
approach retirement at level ten.

Building Future Games and New Campaigns

 You can (and should!) try to use information you’ve 
learned during sessions to construct new plotlines, one shots, 
and even brand new campaigns with new settings and 
characters. Use each session as an opportunity to learn more 
about what your players are interested in both at a meta-level 
(Rita likes roleplaying social intrigue, Rob is bad at it but seems 
to have fun being a loose gun in those situations, Miranda gets 
really into highly detailed combat, Jack loves solving problems 
and devising clever solutions…) and at a character level 
(Arthema the Ranger came from a blasted hellscape, Prince 
Grop was the charismatic leader of the conquering forces, Sumi 
survived the Planar Wars…). Give your PCs the situations they 
enjoy but also take the blasted hellscape, the background 
political conflicts, or even the world history you created and use 
them as different lenses in the same setting for new characters or 
as a springboard for inspiration into what a new setting could 
offer your PCs. The main point here is that everything the PCs 
give you during game can be used or re-purposed elsewhere and 
that’s how you’ll build a hefty stock of hooks and narrative 
inspiration that do a good job engaging your players and really 
up the level of collaborative roleplaying at your table.

Follow the Leader (but not really)

 Your players will look to you to guide play most of the 
time. After all, a lot of the narrative impetus will be constructed 
by you and the players will naturally assume you have all the 
information. They’ll act and believe they’re following your lead 
but I strongly recommend you follow theirs. This may sound 
convoluted but it’s simple: let your PCs make decisions about 
play, while they’re playing, without openly telling them how 
you’re making adjustments on the fly. They’ll think you planned 
it all along and this tactic usually jumps up the excitement. 
Here’s some basic examples to elaborate:

Scenario 1: I created a clever puzzle in a dungeon for the
party to work through. One of my PCs thought of an interesting 
workaround that I didn’t take into account when I designed 
it. I narrate that he has solved the contraption but don’t reveal 
that those were unintended outcomes and simply act as though 
their solution was a correct one. The player feels rewarded by 
their cleverness and the group feels a burst of morale. Explaining 
that you ‘gave them that’ doesn’t really add anything to the 
payoff of getting around the puzzle.

Scenario 2: A PC’s story takes a drastic turn and they wind up 
taking on some kind of unique career specialization, 
gaining a new skill set, or fulfilling a new role. Without 
discussing it, either find a compendium class or create a few 
moves for a homebrew compendium class that relate to this 
character’s new lot and give it to her at the next session. Don’t 
explain that you made it, don’t justify why you gave it what 
moves, just hand it over with whatever title you’ve created for 
her and announce that her character may choose from these 
moves on level up if she wishes. It isn’t as though the player will 
be specifically unaware that you either created or searched for a 
fitting new addition to her character but it makes the act of 
“unlocking” a compendium class seem more like an 
achievement or exciting reward for good character development. 
It also broadcasts to the other players that you are equipped to 
foster really good play and kind of makes everyone excited to 
engage.

Scenario 3: Gary’s Stormcaller character, Agnar, lost an arm in 
a hard-won battle against a colossal snake. Agnar survived with 
magical healing but the arm was unrecoverable. His character 
still plays the same mechanically, so his arm being missing isn’t
hugely impactful to the way the game plays. To the narrative, 
however, you can make this a great big deal. Incorporate his 
new injury and recovery into the game world and narrative 
itself- does the cold environment makes the remainder ache, 
give him opportunity to show how he’s adjusting, are there any 
mundane tasks that are suddenly quite challenging for him to 
manage without aid? How comfortable is Agnar with asking for 
help, if he needs it? Has the party been overly concerned with 
his recovery? You could also have an NPC ask an innocent and 
well-intentioned question, have an enemy make a remark, play 
into any of the other PCs showing concern but perhaps keeping 
it to themselves. Doing this let’s Gary develop more of Agnar’s 
narrative while also giving the other PCs the opportunity to 
become invested as well. Additionally, the vast majority of 
players find it super gratifying to see these kinds of details about 
themselves come into the game in a meaningful way.

Play Aides

Creating Gods and Religion

Whether the setting you play in has literal gods and deities or 
not, you’ll need to take a few things into account to make a 
realistic, driving force- to whatever end is up to you and your 
players. Answer the following questions when creating a god or 
deity (or even a religious order or cult):

 What purpose or need does the entity in question 
serve?

 How does it provide for its worshipers/followers?

How does the entity accommodate for changes in social 
attitude?

 How do followers ensure they receive whatever the 
entity is offering?

 How does this entity punish those who commit 

 offenses?

 What does this entity consider an offense?

 What overarching alignment would best describe this 
entity?

Old Norse Surnames

 Bloodaxe

 Cnute

 Arrow-Odd

 Hardruler

 Herjolfsson

 Finehair

 Housemight

 Fadlan

 Hardradi

 Bluetooth

 Bareleg

 Ironside

 Haddingjaskati

 Hjörvarðsson

 Hundingsbani

 Bergfalk

 Bearsson

 Birchman 

Oakarm

Eld

Forsberg

Hornblower

Shieldbiter

Kjarrwalker

Tidecaller

Varangr

Thorgard

Ragnulf

Osulf

Holgata

Hastein

Hvalman

Varasgaut

Ketill


Mundane Loot Table

1

Crimson-bladed knife

2

Smooth, banded crown

3

Crystal encrusted beetle effigy

4

Heavy gold belt buckle shaped like a serpent

5

Gossamer veil made of gold thread

6

Ceremonial mask with terrifying visage

7

Ancient scroll covered in complex markings

8

A large fragment of stone tile with animal motif

9

A heavy golden ring with a secret compartment

10

Elk skull headdress inlaid with iron decoration

11

Pile of fine, high quality animal pelts

12

Perfectly spherical amethyst

13

Hammered silver armband

14

Handful of finely detailed bone beads

15

Golden amulet of foreign origin

16

Round, yellow crystal that glows softly

17

Heavy silver cloak pin with famous insignia

18

Huge iron belt buckle with an engraving

19

Heavy bronze ring with an engraving

20

Silver hammer amulet on a chain



NPC Generation Table

Roll a D20 1-5 times to randomly select traits for a single NPC

Feature

Feature

Job

Persona

Drive

1

Tall

Elaborate 
Hair

Warrior

Cold

Reclaim 
Honor

2

Short

Mohawk

Mercenary

Arrogant

Best a rival

3

Wide

Unnaturally 
colored hair

Scholar

Taciturn

Unravel a 
secret

4

Slender

Dark skin

Tactition

Amiable

Debilitate 
a foe

5

Muscular

Medium 
skin

Sailor

Suave

Save a soul

6

Chubby

Light skin

Clergy

Irreverent

Serve a god

7

Prominent 
old injury

Freckles

Builder

Socially 
inept

Convert to 
a cause

8

Dressed 
finely

Vitiligo

Smith

Stiff

Perfect an 
art

9

Dressed 
poor

Graceful

Noble/
Rich

Standoffish


Discover 
something

10

Dressed to 
blend in

Clumsy

Wiseperson

Honorable


Cure an 
ailment

11

Obviously 
armed

Notable 
accessory

Healer

Stern

Guide 
someone

12

Not obviously 
armed

Uncommon 
race

Seer

Awkward

Interpret 
the gods

13

Scarred

Mismatched 
eyes

Lorekeeper

Reckless

Gain fame/
infamy


Feature

Feature

Job

Persona

Drive

14

Missing 
eye

Tattoos

General

Brash

Command 
wealth

15

Missing ear

Unnaturally 
colored eyes

Craftsman

Impatient

Assert 
dominance

16

Deformed 
nose

Scar from 
magical 
wound

Assassin

Contrarian


Indulge in 
pleasures

17

Missing 
finger(s)

Limited 
mobility

Hermit

Bookish

Answer a 
question

18

Unfamiliar 
accent

Sickly looking


Arcanist

Hesitant

Command 
loyalty

19

Displays 
signs of 
abuse

Magical aura

Expert

Charismatic


Preserve 
something 
sacred

20

Nervous 
tick

Carries 
something 
magical

Demigod

Selfish

Eradicate a 
threat

Pronouncing Old Norse

A very rough breakdown

 Most consonants in Old Norse sound fairly close to their 
modern English equivalents. Below are some notes on deviations 
I organized but be sure to check out the Acknowledgments 
section for more sources on Old Norse linguistics for a more 
in-depth look from much more qualified sources. 

 The letter c is always pronounced hard, as in cat or 
carpet.

 ð is pronounced like th in English, as in thought or 
that.

 g makes a rough, harder sound, closer to the Scottish 
pronunciation of loch.

 j is pronounced like y, as in yarn or yesterday.

 p usually sounds like normal English p (as in put or pot) 
but before an s or t, it turns into an f sound (like fun or 
fight).

 r is usually trilled.

 þ is pronounced th like thorn, there, and then.

 Accented vowels are usually long vowels. Unaccented 
vowels are usually short.

 æ reads like a in pat.
