Gods and the Nine Realms

I nine worlds remember,
nine trees,
the great central tree,
beneath the earth.

Völuspá, Poetic Edda

 Perhaps the most crucial element to understanding the 
people of Stromgard is understanding the planar system and how 
the differing realms relate to each other. Stromgard is part of a 
much larger world, after all- or, as it is more commonly understood, 
network of worlds. Each one has its own people and 
features and its own place in the hierarchy of divine authority.

The Nine Realms

 There are nine worlds nestled into the branches of the 
cosmic tree, known as Yggdrasil. Travel between these planes is 
possible for the magically gifted or those of divine blood, though 
each realm has different policies regarding the open use of roads 
leading in or out. The Bifrost, or Rainbow Bridge as it's 
colloquially known, connects Asgard to most of Yggdrasil but it 
is also heavily guarded and to traverse it without permission or 
invitation is a steep offense. Like the Bifrost, most extraplanar 
roads were constructed by the Dvergar and to this day, their kind 
and their cousins, the mortal dwarves, are the most knowledgeable 
about securing safe passage to other worlds. Jötnar, 
however, excel at unearthing even the most hidden entrances 
and can freely travel through the planar system as they please, 
though they face great risk in doing so. The only thing most 
gods find more offensive than an uninvited mortal is an 
uninvited Ice Giant.

Asgard

 The highest world on Yggdrasil and the home of the 
Aesir gods. Odin and his family make their home here and it is 
from here that he commands his servants and vassals. Valhalla 
is also here, its golden walls the literal eternal paradise for mortal 
warriors. Asgard is well defended and the road in watched 
constantly. As far as entering uninvited, its strongly believed 
that the task is impossible. Also in Asgard is the sprawling fields 
of Freya, the warrior goddess who is heavily associated with the 
Valkyries. Priests and clerics tell that her meadows receive the 
first half of the honorable warrior-dead for fighting Ragnarök 
while Valhalla receives the second.

Vanaheim

 Immediately below Asgard is Vanaheim, both in physical 
location and in authority. Vanaheim is the realm of the Vanir 
gods, excluding the lower ranking divine elves. The lesser gods 
here spend their time mostly in pursuit of things that add beauty 
to their long life. Music, poetry, and song tend to be the preferred 
pastimes of many deities that reside here. Chief among 
these is Freyr, god of light and song and the entity to whom all 
immortal light elves are sworn to serve. Long ago, the Vanir 
would often war with the Aesir over power and territory and 
some remnants of this still exist today, though there has been 
peace for a few ages now. Most of the Vanir gods would be 
willing to take up arms again, though as they have largely lost 
the will to stand against Asgard, an overarching, unifying desire 
would be needed to move them.

Alfheim

 Known as Elf-home in their native tongue, Alfheim is 
the sacred home of the light elves. Travel between Alfheim and 
the other realms is typically quite easy, if a bit bureaucratically 
tedious. Freyr has given his people leave to come and go as they 
please, for the most part. With proper permissions, Alfir are 
typically permitted to travel to most realms, even Asgard, if they 
desire. Because the Alfir have made it their mission to assist in 
Midgard’s progress towards being civilized, travel between those 
two planes is particularly active.

Myrkheim

 The birthplace of the Dvergar and the ancestral home of 
the modern dwarves. Myrkheim boasts the densest population 
of dwarfkind across all Nine Realms and is a hub of commerce 
and industry. Ore for the finest of dwarven crafts is mined here 
and many of the legendary dwarven heirlooms were crafted here. 
Thor’s hammer, the chain the holds Fenrir, and even Odin’s 
spear were all forged in the open halls of Myrkheim under the 
dim light of their garnet sun and indigo sky. A great number of 
dwarves- mostly Gundkin but also some Dvergar- migrated out 
of Myrkheim over the last few ages to set up homes and colonies 
in the mountains and hills of Midgard, taking advantage of their 
unique natural materials and the lucrative potential of controlling 
most of the weapons market there.

Midgard

 Below Myrkheim is the realm of Midgard, home to the 
mortal races. Midgard technically answers to Asgard but it is 
largely a lawless place where most gods do not usually venture 
into directly. To those living on it, Midgard appears to be endless. 
The ocean seems to stretch on for an infinity and voyagers 
always seem to find new land masses with new people inhabiting 
them. Midgard is a realm of cycles- seasons change, day becomes 
night, tides rise and fall… it seems every natural force in 
Midgard has a counterforce to pull back against it. Life is hard 
there, however, without innate divinity keeping them alive, the 
mortals must toil for shelter and sustenance, each year marked 
by a harsh winter that kills plants and drives animals away. But 
the mortals are nothing if not resilient and inventive.

Jötunheim

 Jötunheim is a strange place, said to physically exist as 
more of a ring than a true world. Legends state that the 
Midgard Serpent lies asleep and coiled around the edge of 
Midgard, but that Jötunheim, in turn, encircles the serpent, 
making both planes and the great snake look like a cosmic 
bullseye. Jötunheim is primarily a land of icy crags and 
impossibly huge mountains, though it does boast plenty of 
forests, fjords, and even some beautiful lowlands. Everything 
here is proportional to the larger Jötnar and most mortals would 
find themselves absolutely dwarfed in their forests or foothills. 
While travel between Jötunheim and Midgard is relatively 
simple and unregulated, most mortals live in fear of Jötnar and 
wouldn’t readily volunteer to explore their homeland. There is a 
persistent belief that Jötnar and likewise constantly trying to find 
ways into Asgard so they can infiltrate it and depose the Aesir.

Svartalfheim

 In terms of divine hierarchy, Svartalfheim is 
technically equal to Alfheim. It is home to the reclusive moon 
elves, the Nithfir, though in terms of physical location it is far 
outflung on the limbs of Yggdrasil and actually sits a little below 
Midgard. After the last Aesir/Vanir conflicts, the Nithfir decided 
to abandon their place in the divine hierarchy and retreated 
entirely into their own realm. So much time has passed since 
then that most have forgotten what Svartalfheim looks like. 
Travel in and out is prohibited and the road is blocked by 
intense offensive magic and arcane traps. Svartalfheim is entirely 
cut off from the other realms and it seems as though the Nithfir 
living there have every intention of keeping it that way.

Helheim

 Beneath Svartalfheim, Helheim is the home of the dead 
who do not make it into Valhalla for one reason or another. 
The realm is controlled by a goddess of the same namesake who 
judges the deeds of the unworthy and assigns them labor to 
complete in punishment for misdeeds in life. There are rumors 
of secret portals that lead in and out of Hel’s domain but only 
the insane would try to force their way into Helheim while they 
still had life in them.

Niflheim

 Immediately below Helheim- and technically a subrealm 
as it is actually attached to Helheim via arcane tethers- Niflheim 
is a barren, icy wasteland that serves as a prison for the cowardly 
or dishonorable dead Hel discards. It is impossible to reach 
Niflheim without going through Helheim first, supposedly, but 
it's safe to say that this frozen hellscape gets very few outside 
visitors.

Muspelheim

 The lowest plane on Yggdrasil is Muspelheim, the land of 
the fire giants. The entrance as been sealed off, as far as anyone 
knows, to keep the giants from climbing the cosmic tree and 
setting all the worlds ablaze. Even bringing up Muspelheim in 
conversation is nearly taboo as it was prophesied that Surt, the 
fire giant’s god-king, would escape as the final doom Ragnarök 
would bring before everything perished in a cosmic blaze.

Types of Divinity

 Divinity, power, and godliness are three very gray 
boundaries in the Nine Realms. Arcane scholars of all races have 
argued about the characteristics of each since the beginning of 
organized study, it seems. Most people- mortals and immortals 
of all races- tend to categorize powerful beings into three main 
categories.

Jötnar

 The Jötnar the oldest race and a powerful set of people 
that are extremely varied in terms of physical appearance and 
prowess. Some Jötnar are human sized, some are tall as 
mountains and proportionally powerful. What separates a 
Jötnar from a god is much less clear. Ymir, the first giant, is 
inarguably a divine being. And many Jötnar are either married 
to Aesir- notably Skadi- or have Aesir offspring with another 
god. Odin is said to be part Jötnar, as are his sons Thor and 
Loki. The qualifiers that make a Jötnar a god are difficult to 
nail down, though beings like Surt and Ymir are unquestionably 
worthy of awe and terror.

Aesir

 The Aesir are considered the highest rank of divine power 
in the Nine Realms, chiefly due to their immense influence and 
control over the natural world that governs mortals. 

Vanir

 A lower class of divine beings. Long ago there were many 
violent conflicts between the Aesir and Vanir but it seems that 
those dark days are finally in the past to stay. The Alfir and 
Nithfir are also technically Vanir deities but they are the lowest 
ranking, least powerful of them.

The Gods

Ymir and Creation

 No discussion of gods and cosmic beings would be 
complete without first discussing the origin of the worlds that 
be. Ymir was the original primeval being from before the world 
was truly alive. A being that eludes simple descriptions, Ymir 
was simultaneously male and female, fire and ice, and life and 
death while also none of these things, all at once. Ymir was 
nourished by the milk of the divine cow, Authumia, who also 
brought the first Aesir god, Buri, into existence by licking ice 
into the shape of a person. The first true Jötnar were born from 
Ymir’s sweat and the union between one of these proto-Jötnar 
and Buri bore Odin and his two brothers. The brothers eventually 
slew Ymir and used the body to create the earth and cosmos- 
the rush of blood became the seas, bones became the mountains, 
hair became trees, brains became clouds, and the skull was the 
heavens. Odin and his brothers made Midgard out of Ymir’s 
brow and originally intended it to be a defensible place. A 
rather insulting, contested legend describes the first dwarves as 
forming from the corpse’s maggots. The more polite version 
states that they were shaped of Ymir’s flesh and filled with his 
blood.

Surt: Pillar of Fire

 Surt is a titanic Jötun that resides in and controls the 
realm of fire, Muspelheim. One of the catalysts for the cyclical 
destruction of the world, known as Ragnarök, Surt is hellbent 
on leading his armies to war against the Aesir and Vanir. With 
an enormous flaming sword, Surt desires little else then to 
set the world ablaze and bring the gods to their knees. Many 
prophecies of Ragnarök warn of him rising from the south and 
tearing the land apart under his mighty steps.

The Aesir Deities

Odin

 King of the gods, most commonly associated with 
wisdom, war, martial combat, sorcery, and prophecy. He gave 
up his left eye and spent nine days hanging from a branch of 
Yggdrasil by a noose in exchange for a drink from the Well of 
Knowledge, kept by the Norns. 

Frigg

 Wife of Odin. She is associated with prophetic arts and is 
the patron god of Seiðr and their craft. She is often invoked by 
wives and mothers seeking strength to guide their families.

Thor

 A mighty and noble warrior, Thor is most commonly 
associated with combat, battle prowess, storms (especially 
lightning), protection, strength, and sometimes virility. Along 
with a number of magical, dwarven items, Thor wields Mjolnir, 
an enormous hammer with the power to level mountains.

Baldr

 A god of light, Baldr is associated with the sun, summer, 
and purity. He is also sometimes invoked by sailors as he 
supposedly has a magnificent ship that surpasses all others. It 
has been prophesied that Baldr’s death is one of the first signs of 
impending Ragnarök.

Tyr

 The somewhat rare voice of law and due process in 
Asgard. Tyr is associated to honorable glory and is a venerable 
warrior even with only one hand.

Loki

 Loki is considered an Aesir god but his origins and 
motives make him somewhat of an outsider. He is part Jötun 
and adopted son of Odin. Loki, above all else, values cleverness 
and wits. Often called a trickster, Loki does much to turn 
convention on its head and expose the hypocrisies of civilization. 
Loki is only invoked with care, as he is prone to mischief, but he 
is associated with knowledge, wits, outcasts, and revenge.

Hel

 Like Loki, Hel’s role as an Aesir god is very gray. As 
Loki’s daughter, she is considered to be more Jötun than 
anything else and counts the wolf Fenrir and the world-eating 
snake Jörmungandr among her multiple siblings. Hel oversees 
the realm of the same name, managing the dead that do not 
make it to the golden mead halls of Vallhalla. Although an 
astronomically small number of people ever lay eyes on Hel and 
return to tell the tale, rumors say she is both old and young, and 
at once beautiful but terrifying. Like her father, Hel is said to 
possess a crafty streak and will oblige mortal pleading to return 
to life if some impossible task is completed- inevitably ending 
in breaking her charges’ wills. Hel also has many loyal servants, 
which prompts most mortals to avoid invoking her name in fear 
of summoning her attention.

The Vanir Deities

Freya

 Depending on the region, Freya is sometimes considered 
an Aesir. She is the preeminent goddess of love and beauty, 
as well as wealth, fertility, and the moon. Like Frigg, she is a 
champion of Seiðr and sorcerers, especially female spell-weavers. 
It is said that the first Seiðr learned their powers from her. Freya 
is also, however, a highly gifted warrior and helps the Valkyries 
sort through the honorable dead, deciding on champions to 
bring to Valhalla and her own field of warriors, Fólkvangr.

Freyr

 The lord of Alfheim and of the Light Elves living there. 
He is associated with sacral authority, the sun, weather, and 
prosperity. He is commonly invoked by mortals for fair sailing 
conditions and matters of virility. The Alfir revere him as the 
divine embodiment of all that is light and fair and pleasurable in 
the world. 

Njord

 The god of the sea and just about everything associated. 
Njord is invoked by those wishing for safe travels on open water, 
plentiful fish, calm winds, and placid tides. He is also commonly 
associated with farming, bounty, and crop health. Njord 
is typically believed to be immensely kind and forgiving, often 
depicted as a robed figure shepherding the weak.

Skadi

 Technically a Jötun, Skadi is sometimes considered a 
Vanir goddess- depending on your take on her status after a 
failed marriage to Njord. She is a mighty hunter and warrior, 
associated with bows and arrows, skiing, mountains, and winter’s 
icy grasp. Skadi values independence and freedom most of all, 
and does not look kindly on the cowardly or simpering.

Kvasir

 A wiseman said to have formed from the mix of Aesir and 
Vanir saliva. Kvasir was known to be well traveled and knew 
many of Yggdrasil’s secrets and denizens. Scandalously, this 
Vanir god was “murdered” by a pair of dwarves- as much as you 
can truly murder an immortal, anyway. His blood was drained 
and mixed with honey, which fermented and became the Mead 
of Poetry, which provides wit and intelligence to any who drink 
it.

Heimdallr

 While his true relation to the Aesir and the Vanir is 
obscured to mortals, most regions hold the belief that he is more 
closely linked to the Vanir gods. Heimdallr is the steward of the 
Gjallarhorn- a magical horn that can be heard in all nine realms 
and is the immortal watchman of the Bifrost, which he guards 
the passage of carefully. Rumored to possess golden teeth and 
a golden horse, Heimdallr is often portrayed as a being of sharp 
sense, foresight, and gallantry. He is also the son of the Nine 
Mothers, demigoddesses of the seas and is said to have created 
social castes that bind mortals.

Ullr

 Like most of the Vanir gods, Ullr’s status flip flops 
between Aesir and Vanir depending on who you talk to. He 
is associated with archery, glory in combat, and ritual. Those 
devoted to him regularly have “servant of the glory-father” or 
“servant to the glorious one” etched into their weapons and 
equipment, along with a hexagonal marking that somewhat 
resembles a shield. 

Gerðr

 Like Skadi, Gerðr is a Jötun that is typically counted 
along with the Vanir as she is the wife of Freyr, the sun deity and 
patron of elvenkind. Both by her beauty and divine 
mind, Gerðr is revered as a kind of holy muse who 
can inspire works of art from even the clumsiest of 
hands. She is also commonly associated with 
the earth and stability.
