Introduction

And the mighty past they call to mind,
And the ancient runes of the Ruler of Gods.

Völuspá, Poetic Edda

 The Wyrd of Stromgard is exactly what it says it is. In 
Norse lore, words held real power and to speak something aloud 
was to make it real. That’s why prophecy and fate were often 
called a ‘wyrd’. The Wyrd of Stromgard is whatever you will it 
to be, whether that’s hell and high water, bloody conquest, or 
heroic journeys and metamorphoses.

 The Wyrd of Stromgard is made to be used with the 
Dungeon World system, which in turn was built on the Apocalypse 
World ruleset. The Wyrd of Stromgard uses Dungeon 
World’s moves and rules to quantify actions and events- it isn’t a 
‘hack’, per se. It’s an expansion. The Wyrd of Stromgard doesn’t 
alter the rules of Dungeon World but it is a fully formed and 
fully functioning setting for players to interpret and customize as 
they please in any way they wish.

 Firstly, Stromgard is a rich fantasy-Norse setting, 
populated with beings and locales made famous in the surviving 
canon of Norse mythos. Stromgard was inspired by the lore 
of the many Icelandic Sagas, as well as the better-known Poetic 
Edda and Snorri Sturluson’s Prose Edda. While most of the 
surviving knowledge about Vikings and their lore comes from 
a post-Christianization world view, Stromgard was intended 
to represent a pagan land where the dichotomy between good 
and evil isn’t as clearly defined. Stromgard was also intended to 
blend fantasy and what kernels of truth we know of... The 
fantastic elements of monsters, tangible magic, and cataclysm 
meld seamlessly with the real struggle of harsh winters and 
resource scarcity. 

 Secondly, Stromgard is intended to function as a heavily 
detailed stage for your own epic sagas. In line with Dungeon 
World’s GM principle “Make maps but leave blanks”, Stromgard 
was designed with customization in mind. Sure, the land is 
littered with steadings and dramatic landmarks but there is 
always room for more- for yours, specifically. Stromgard is an 
intricate setting, with moving parts. But those parts are intended 
to be left out, added to, or support new ideas as the GM and 
their party sees fit. 

 So, what does this book contain? Primarily, it provides 
elaborate stage and set dressings to place your Dungeon World 
games into an expansive and lush fantasy world without 
having to do a lot of heavy lifting in the form of playbook hacks 
or other preparations. Inside, you’ll find five class playbooks- 
the Bearskin, the Skald, the Hunter, the Stormcaller, and the 
Crone. You’ll also find five racial classes- the Fae, the Troll, the 
Dvergr, the Alfir, and the Jötunnborn. These powerful supernatural 
beings have skill sets tied to their innate abilities and 
cultural backgrounds so they don’t rely on class specializations 
like mortals to be formidable out in the world. Mechanically 
speaking, these characters have powerful boons that are 
tempered by weighty drawbacks.

 There’s also seven compendium classes for extended 
campaigns that offer a huge variety of specialized skills for 
advanced PCs. These include the Runecaster, the Fae-Touched, 
the Úlfhéðnar, the Seiðr, the Ghost Rider, the Voyager, and the 
Unsavage. These compendium classes offer a wide range of 
arcane, physical, and social skills to further color PCs and drive 

narrative. All of these classes provide detailed archetypes for 
basing a plethora of Norse heroes and heroines off. Additionally, 
the standard Dungeon World classes fit in just fine inside 
Stromgard, too. You'll also find a wealth of knowledge about 
Stromgard as a setting and its many facets like race, economy, 
religion, warfare, and arcana. You can use this information as is 
to run a fuss-free campaign or alter any portions you desire to 
tailor to your tastes. 

 In the back of the book, you’ll find more GM-centric 
aides: a robust monster manual, premade steadings and a handy 
generation table, a map, equipment lists, item and services/
shopping guide, as well as mundane and magical loot tables 
(all with an emphasis on being easy to create narrative hooks 
from) and an NPC generation table. The GM’s toolkit contains 
high-impact, highly tested strategies for improving your game. 
There’s tips on raising player engagement, fostering a healthy 
and productive play environment, as well as advice on how to 
pace character development and building your collection of 
narrative hooks. It also includes a sample session structure 
incorporating a lot of this advice into an easy to understand and 
easy to reference framework that can help elevate your 
campaigns to the next level. And speaking of campaigns, there’s 
also an entire four-front Adventure ready for you to use as a 
backdrop for an epic long-format campaign complete with 
monsters, custom moves, extra-planar locations, titanic 
monsters, gods, and the end of the world. No GM’s toolkit is 
complete without a direct path to apocalypse, surely. 

 The Wyrd of Stromgard is a stage, meant to support and 
highlight your own creative impetus as you run amok in a world 
brimming with Norse lore.
