Monsters

For Sigmund

no small fame grew after his final day,

after that hardened soldier, prince’s son, 

had killed a dragon, keeper of a hoard

 

Beowulf

 The monsters of Stromgard are largely inspired by Norse 
mythology, though many come from other parts of the world 
too- notably Celtic and medieval Anglo-Saxon legends. Here, 
you’ll find a wide array of monsters that range from evil and 
destructive, to pure and good, to just plain feral and beast-like.

 All of these entities can also be easily scaled to be more 
or less difficult as well, so that you can use whatever monster 
fits your campaign narrative best without excessive concern over 
what the PCs are intended to fight mechanics-wise. A fun idea 
for more advanced campaigns is titanic monsters or beings who 
are so huge and powerful stats simply don’t apply. Your party 
will need to come up with something more clever than simply 
attacking it with mundane weapons but if there’s one universal 
truth about Norse myths, its that huge monsters were an ever 
present fear.

Baba Yaga

 
Tales of Baba Yaga- or something like her- exist in just 
about every corner of the world. A wisewoman that holds 
immense knowledge- not only about the arcane and mystical 
but of the natural world- makes for a hard temptation to resist 
for anyone with a tough problem to solve. The Baba Yaga exists 
sometimes as three separate old hags with the same name 
(similar to the Greek Fates or Celtic figures that embody the 
traits of the Mother/Maiden/Crone) and sometimes just as a 
single entity. She lives deep in the woods in a house that can 
walk, using enchanted chicken legs. Baba Yaga’s motives 
transcend the mundane concepts of good and evil- her aid is hers 
to give to anyone she sees fit, as is her wrath.

Baba Yaga Solitary, Devious, Magical

Ghost Hand (1D10 damage) 10HP / 4ARM

Close, Reach

Baba Yaga is a vicious hag that lives in the most secluded parts 
of the forest in a hut that can move on magical chicken legs. 
She is a well of immense knowledge and can sometimes be convinced 
to advise with an appropriate gift and due respect. Other 
times she’s as wild as a storm, raging through the forest on a 
magical pestle and eating small children.

Instinct:

 Amass and keep lore

Moves:

 Offer a hard bargain to someone in need

 Appear and disappear in her magic hut 

 Remember individual smells and track them

 Teach a hard lesson

 “So can you help?” Tor asked impatiently, leaning in a 
cramped hunch over the old hag’s dining table. “They’re bound to 
catch up to me-”

 “Drink you tea, child,” the shambling old woman barked, 
the glint of iron teeth in her mouth stark against the candlelight. 
Tor eyed the vessel of steaming liquid in front of him with obvious 
suspicion but the Jötunnborn could see no way to refuse without 
being uncouth. “A good hound never loses the smell of a hare,” she 
went on cryptically, “but a good hare has many burrows to hide in.”

 “Then that means-” Tor began, unable to control himself.

 “Drink your tea!” she snarled. “Or no help will come.”

Bicorn

 While there are sometimes more monstrous things also 
called bicorns, the bicorns of Stromgard are close relatives to 
unicorns and operate closely to Arthurian legends as well- 
bicorns are particularly fond of gentle-hearted women and an 
emblem for all that is innocent and good. They are said to 
appear before the helpless and abused in times of immense need 
and their healing powers make them a legend among warriors. 
While provoking a bicorn attack is extremely unlikely due to 
their skittish nature, it’s said that they can be vicious and 
aggressive if cornered or suffer harm.

Bicorn Solitary, Magical

Dual Pierce (1D8 damage, 2 Piercing) 15HP/4ARM

Close, Reach

Bicorns are guardians of the most remote, sacred spots all over 
the Nine Realms. To see one is a great boon and there are old 
wives tales from all corners about horrifically wounded innocents 
wandering into a dark grove only to be approached by 
this noble beast and miraculously brought back from the brink 
of death.

Impulse:

 Protect the pure

Moves: 

 Heal grievous injuries

 Teleport to safety

 Gore impure interlopers


 Ana sat slumped against a rotted log at the edge of the 
clearing, lolling a little as she panted shallowly. She had escaped 
the bandits but was mortally wounded- she’d taken one of their 
blades to the gut and the steady pulse of visceral pain that told her 
everything she needed to know. She was dying.

 A soft noise prompted her to lift her heavy head- through 
her snow matted hair she caught sight of something that made her 
heavy, struggling heart skip a beat- a horse, unsaddled and unshoed, 
stepping towards her cautiously, great muzzle lowered and 
soft eyes gentle. She didn’t dare move when she realized the two 
great spiral horns that sprouted from the beast’s head. As her 
shaking, death-pale hand reached up to stroke the snowy muzzle, 
she felt a divine warmth wash over her as her vitality restored. She 
would live, somehow.

Dýrbjorn

 The prefix dýr is usually translated in modern fantasy as 
dire and appended to monsters to denote a more dangerous 
version. Both dire-wolves and dire-bears originate from Norse 
and Proto Germanic myth where animals were said to have 
‘ancient’ or ‘primordial’ forms. This difference in physical 
appearance was said to correspond to a much higher level of 
ferocity, aggression, and pure brute strength as well as a vastly 
larger physical size. While even normal bears can tower close to 
fifteen-ish feet on their hind legs, a dýrbjorn can reach twenty to 
twenty-five regularly. Territorial and prone to berserk rages (the 
berserkers aren’t known as Bearskins for nothing, afterall) even a 
single dýrbjorn can wipe out a village without much effort.

Dýrbjorn Single, Large

Charge (1D10+1 damage) 10HP/2ARM

Close, Reach

While dýrbjorn aren’t known for their intelligence, they are 
aggressive and particularly vicious when hungry. Their towering 
size can reach almost 25ft fully grown and weigh thousands of 
pounds. The danger they present to even an experienced group 
of warriors is steep and to engage one is pure foolhardiness. 

Instinct: 

 Seek food

Moves:

 Frenzy when in pain

 Ambush weaker prey


 Stoic had seen more than his fair share of violence- the scars 
criss-crossing his body like thatchwork told the story as well as his 
mouth. Except for the one about the dýrbjorn. Whenever he told it, 
the longhouse would go silent- even veterans and jarls would listen 
raptly to the telling- of how he tracked a monster terrorizing an 
isolated village to a mountain crag. How he had expected wolves 
or maybe a storrkat. How he had been intentionally diverted and 
ambushed by a towering beast, slavering and covered with vicious 
spines, standing about as tall as a snekkja’s mast. It was lightning 
fast for its size and Stoic had fought for his life on that mountain. 
His tale always reached a nailbiting climax when he lifted his 
gambeson to show the deep puncture wounds and clawmark scars 
raked across his torso and usually drew applause when he offered his 
listeners a better view of his spiny, heavy bear-fur cloak.

Fjölð

 
The fjölð is mostly a monster based off Viking superstition 
of gold and money-counting. The name means ‘plenty’ which 
reflects how this monster feeds and ensnares its victims and 
temporary hosts. According to Norse legends, math- specifically 
the counting of money- was considered a type of witchcraft that 
only women could (or should) perform. In Stromgard, this is 
the warden that enforces that particular taboo- by catching an 
unwitting man off guard and leeching their energy away by 
temporarily inhibiting their cognitive functions. The fjölð is a 
type of daemon and in this method ‘possesses’ the victim until 
they are sated... then at which point they leave their stupid prey 
helpless and confused until the effects wear off.

Fjölð Single

Drain (1D6 damage) + Ignores Armor 10HP/4ARM

Close

Fjölð are non-corporeal demonic spirits attracted to confusion 

and bad math. Their demonic essence is harmed with salt 
anointed weapons but otherwise, bladed objects will simply pass 
through them. When they drain a target, they are sucking out 
raw cognitive power and the more they feed, the stupider their 
prey becomes. 

Instinct:

 Hunt taboo-breakers

Moves:

 Feed on targets cognitive intelligence

 Incapacitate target

 Cause permanent mental damage

 Of course Vitr knew the law, the superstition behind it was 
as old as dwarves themselves. But there were no women to count his 
conquested treasure and he needed a number now if he was going to 
survive his debtors. The stocky figure knelt and carefully sorted his 
pile of coins, ingots, iron weapons, and other, more exotic trinkets. 
It swiftly turned into an intense struggle. He found himself starting 
over constantly. Six... ten... a dozen... he paused, staring blankly 
at the little nuggets of gold. Six... ten... he paused again, noncomprehending. 
He thought he might have heard a short chuckle from 
just behind him but was too busy wondering why counting was so 
hard to feel alarmed by this. Six... None of this made any sense. 
He stared blankly at the treasure. What even was all of this stuff? 
What was he doing with all of it? It was so pretty though.

Gullinbursti

 
While there is only one Gullinbursti spoken of in Norse 
myth- the one forged by Sindri for Freyr- in Stromgard, they are 
a reclusive species that live in the densely forested regions of the 
realm. Because of the Gullinbursti’s association with Freyr and 
with gold, it is also heavily associated with the Alfir and mortal 
elvenkind. Many of their weapons, trinkets, and household 
items bear the motif of the golden boar as a symbol of strength 
and material wealth. It is considered a great honor to hunt one 
and any wishing to make the attempt must impress the elves of 
the region and earn their blessing first due to the beast’s divine 
association.


Gullinbursti Divine, Solitary

Gore (1D10 damage, 2 piercing) 12HP/1ARM

Trample (1D10)

Close, Reach

Gullinbursti are relentlessly single minded when threatened or 
enraged and they will never give up on chasing someone who 
has tried to wound it and not yet succeeded in killing it. These 
huge boars are considered to be of divine descent by Alfir and 
most Elffolk. Before hunting one it is an essential custom to ask 
permission and provide a needed service to local elves for their 
blessing if you wish to avoid their long memory for wrath. The 
Gullinbursti’s bristly hide is also said to be made of gold and is 
incredibly valuable.

Instinct:

 Defend territory

Moves:

 Relentless pursuit

 Aggressively attack if threatened

 Inspires protection by elves

 Eira had never run so damn fast in her whole life. The 
Gullinbursti’s thick hide had prevented her axe from doing 
anything beside absolutely enraging it. She was sprinting full tilt, 
her stamina draining quickly. It was snorting and frothing at the 
mouth right behind her and she couldn’t get enough of a lead on it 
to hide. She darted around a heavy oak and planted her feet, 
leaping up to the high branches as dexterously as she could. There 
was a second of relief before the enormous boar threw its entire 
weight against the trunk and the whole tree nearly came down. 

Heiðrún

 
The heiðrún is actually referenced in both the Poetic and 
Prose Eddas and, like the Gullinbursti, they both reference a 
specific, single beast. The heiðrún is a gigantic goat that lives 
Valhalla and provides the mead for the gods and mortal soldiers 
who have earned their place there. It is a little unclear due to 
translation discrepancies but supposedly the heiðrún eats the 
leaves of part of Yggdrasil- which is the reason this fantastic 
creature produces fresh mead in place of milk. In Stromgard, 
there are multiple heiðrún, though they are extraordinarily rare 
(and colossal) and only found natively on the higher planes of 
Yggdrasil and typically in the care of some kind of divine being.


Heiðrún Solitary, Huge

Charge (1D10+3 damage)+ Forceful 16HP/1ARM

Huge, Reach

Heiðrún eat the leaves from sacred trees to produce golden 
mead that even the gods find invigorating. Heiðrún are 
typically fearful of most who approach and would rather not act 
with aggression. However, if cornered or hurt, they will attack 
and their size makes them extremely deadly. 

Instinct: 

 Graze

Moves:

 Create opportunity to escape danger

 Produce golden mead instead of milk


 Sörli could not believe his eyes, though that had sort of been 
the theme once he had managed to sneak onto the Bifrost. A goat 
stood below him in a sunny clearing. The animal was enormous. 
Bigger than enormous. Almost as big as the Jarl’s house in Sörli’s 
long abandoned home town. Thirteen men- maybe more- could sit 
astride its shaggy back and Sörli marveled for several long moments 
as the beast contented itself to stand precariously on its hind legs to 
eat leaves off a tree.

 He wondered what giant goat milk would taste like and 
found himself climbing down to check before he could rationalize it. 
He approached cautiously but needn’t have worried. The goat let 
him and seemed not to care when he took a sample. To his shock it 
was not milk at all, but mead. The best he had ever tasted and his 
whole body sang with delight and his every nerve was invigorated 
by the taste.

Ice Giant

 When most mortals talk about terrifying things out of 
Jötunheim, this is usually what they’re referring to. Fully wild 
Ice Giants- whose seething rage and desire to take action against 
those who have slighted them are still fully intelligent and 
capable of reason... however it takes something truly special to 
get through their hatred as they are absolutely given over to their 
most primal emotions. In the meantime, expect a rampaging Ice 
Giant to viciously attack almost anyone on sight, even their own 
kin. Ice Giants make full use of their Jötun abilities, often 
appearing with monstrous forms and unearthly features.


Ice Giant Large, Organized

Huge Weapon (1D8+3 damage)+ Forceful 10HP/2ARM

Close, Reach

A Jötun completely given into their rage is avatar of destruction 
and bitter hatred towards any who commit wrongs (perceived or 
otherwise) against them. Like a cornered animal driven to lashing 
out, an enraged Ice Giant has little regard to bodily harm or 
long lasting consequences of an attack. More troubling still is 
that these beings sometimes from small groups and can 
coordinate their destruction.

Instincts:

 Lash out at perpetrators of oppression

Moves

 Ignore the harsh snow and ice

 Cause chaos, undermine civilization

 Attack those who openly defer to the gods 


 Morkret didn’t think it was possible to be taken off guard by 
something so grotesque and so huge. It lumbered up from the craggy 
dip between switchbacks, tearing huge tracks into solid rock as it 
clawed its way into the open to pursue. Morkret wasn’t an expert 
on Jötnar, sure, but it didn’t take a genius to see its furious, ice-blue 
eyes dilate with the realization that an Alfar had been unfortunate 
enough to happen across it. It let out an earth-shattering roar that 
sent a small avalanche of rocks, snow, and dirt down the mountainside 
and Morkret decided staying to study the thing was a bad 
idea. He turned and sprinted back the way he had come, flying 
nimbly over the treacherous path. The Ice Giant was on the ridge 
now, panting deep and wet as it frothed and slavered like a berseker, 
charging down the narrow path after him.

Jörmungandr

 Otherwise known as the Midgard Serpent, Jörmungandr 
is technically a type of dragon. It is said to be as large as a 
mountain range and destined to end Thor during Ragnarök. 
Legends say that this massive beast hibernates around the plane 
of Midgard, its enormous body coiled around the world of 
mortals in a rather poetic display of the fragility and 
impermanence that burden the people of Midgard. Though, it 
goes without saying that in the face of this nightmare, even 
divine immortality may prove to be a transient state. Invoking 
the name of Jörmungandr at sea is said to make the beast restless 
and remains a sailor's most ardently believed superstition.

MONSTERS

Jörmungandr Stealthy, Divine

Jörmungandr is an enormous snake-like dragon said to surround 
the borders of the known mortal world like a noose around a 
condemned neck. Tales vary about its exact location- some say 
it lives at the bottom of the sea in black, briny water, others say 
it burrows into the ground, and still others maintain that it cannot 
be large enough to physically encircle the world and instead 
must dream of Ragnarök from some kind of lair.

Instinct:

 Remain hidden until the apocalypse

 Drown Midgard in a violent tide

Moves:

 Move stealthily in water

 Manipulate tides and weather

 Summon swarms from the depths 


 Vidar had seen monsters before- hell he was sometimes called 
that himself if he stuck around civilized towns longer than 
necessary. But that was nothing on the hellish shape rising out of 
the sea like a bloody mountain. His plan to cross the straits into 
Jötunheim in the hopes of finding an ounce of peace seemed 
incredibly foolish now, as the World Serpent’s huge, fanged jaws 
opened and a putrid smell that curled his toes hit him like a wall. 
Now he was trapped on a tiny drakkar spinning in the churning 
waves as this absolute titan of a snake was taking out whole ships 
with each lunge, leaving not a plank or man behind. Vidar’s desire 
for the freedom Jötunheim represented steeled his nerves and he 
gripped his spear tighter, barking an order back for the helmsmen to 
bring him closer.

Kelpie

 
Kelpies are a monster primarily from Scottish legends that 
found their way around most of the Celtic canon due in no small 
part to how horribly grotesque they are. There’s a great deal of 
symbolism between Kelpies and various Satanic imagery, 
especially when discussed in more modern writings, but also with 
Pan, Poseidon, and others figures. Modern socio-anthropologists 
suggest that Kelpies were a practical way to keep children away 
from treacherous waterways and away from strangers. Whatever 
the reason for their invention, Kelpies are an embodiment of 
deceit and suffering and can take on the forms of enticing beings 
to try and capture their victims.


Kelpie Solitary/Magical

Bite (1D8 damage) 10HP/2ARM

Close, Reach

Kelpies partially absorb any who touch them and their hands (or 
legs, if they were foolish enough to try and ride them) become 
fixed to the Kelpie’s slimy, rotting body. Once a Kelpie has 
ensnared a victim it will plunge into the nearest body of water 
and dive deeply, keeping its victim from escaping and drowning 
them. Kelpies typically eat their prey, but will sometimes leave 
a mostly intact corpse behind that floats up to the surface as a 
warning.

Instinct:

 Absorb and drown prey

Moves:

 Morph into a horse, hippocamp, or distressed, 

 attractive human

 Lure and deceive prey

 The shift Dagmar felt from curious delight to horror when 
she laid her hand on the thickly muscled steed made her every alarm 
instinct flare up with tremendous force. It was like sticking your 
hand in mud... or placing your hand on what you expect to be a 
solid, warm surface only for it to give way to cold, rotten meat and 
for the stench of water-logged death to hit your senses like a hook 
to the jaw. It surged and Dagmar lost her footing in the shallows, 
dragged along by the skeletal, slimy nightmare and she couldn’t 
help the terrified scream that ripped up her throat over the sound of 
splashing and struggling. The Kelpie dove and the world was 
muffled, greenish black water enveloping them both totally while 
the skull of the horse head grinned toothily.

Knútr

 The word knútr means ‘knot’ and in this case, it’s a 
reference to the close knit groups knútr form to compensate for 
their small, weak bearing. Individually, knútr aren’t threatening 
but it’s their swarms and tendency to act as a huge, relatively 
cohesive unit that make them dangerous. Knútr have long, 
gangling limbs covered in rubbery, slimy skin. Their flesh is a 
dark, greenish color, usually influenced somewhat by their 
habitat, and they can live either in above ground shanty-towns 
made of debris or in natural caves found all over most of 
Stromgard. While knútr present something of a threat en masse, 
they’re not particularly intelligent and definitely not threatening 
individually.

MONSTERS

Knútr Horde, Small

Bite (1D6 damage) 3HP/1ARM

Close

Recently, Knútr have gotten it into their heads that eating the 
flesh of more intelligent races will improve their overall health 
as a group. The most common method of their attack is to send 
a small party into a populated area to cause a ruckus and while 
the warriors run out to deal with that, more rush into homes 
and farms to steal any child small enough to carry off- along 
with anything else they can grab.

Instincts:

 Devour and Steal

Moves:

 Swarm

 Call for reinforcements

 Cause a diversion

 Knútr were swarming through the abandoned village and 
Mim could see them pouring down the main thoroughfare by the 
hundreds- tiny, snapping jaws full of razor sharp teeth and beady 
eyes greedy for flesh. Volgarr was taking out three or four with each 
swipe of his huge axe but the tide was still rising. Mim thought he 
might have a better idea. The wind-Fae raised the old horn to his 
lips and the wind kicked up, stirring up a cloud of snow as he took 
a huge gulp of cold air, held it for an instant, and then forced it 
through the lur. The sound rang for miles and a blast of air with 
the force of a hurricane ripped from the bell. Knútr were sent flying 
through the air like dead leaves on stormwinds, squealing and 
flailing as the lur’s echoing note still reverberated over the hills and 
eskers with triumphant clarity.

Kraka

 
Another creature unique to Stromgard, Kraka are a 
vicious species of two-headed crow with long, pheasant-like 
tailfeathers. They can typically be found in most mountains up 
near the timber line and higher as they usually nest in sheltered 
outcroppings or cliff faces. Like most corvids, Kraka are tremendously 
intelligent and can hunt alone or in small groups. Their 
intelligence also lends itself to some sadism as the dissonant 
sound they make when both heads screech (compounded if more 
Kraka are present) confuses any who hear it. Their tailfeathers- 
about as long as a human arm- are prized as both alchemical 
ingredients and as status symbols for the hunter who has everything.

MONSTERS

Kraka Small Groups, Small

Peck/Talons (1D8 damage) 4HP/2ARM

Close

Kraka are clever hunters but also quite cruel. They will surround 
and pick off weak targets wherever possible, oftentimes 
hypnotizing their prey into killing itself in various grisly ways. 
Their intelligence is still less than humans but for a beast they 
are cunning and rarely give up on something they want.

Instinct:

 Target the weak

Moves:

 Hypnotize with dissonant screeching and implant 
dangerous compulsions.

 Create a cacophony


 Beorhtric stared at the birds circling above him- odd-looking 
things with two heads, he thought absently, squinting against the 
glare of the snow and the iron gray sky. The birds cawed to each 
other and the noise was scratchy and harsh but it echoed over the 
rocky crags almost pleasantly. The sound intensified as the other 
birds answered the first call and a second later the noise was the 
only thing Beorhtric could process as it filled his head with oscillating 
echoes that made it hard to think. He stood to try and follow 
as the birds wheeled and dipped closer to the cliffside, circling over 
the void. Still, Beorhtric followed, unaware or unconcerned for the 
steep drop he was about to step off.

Linnorm

 The Linnorm is a huge, ugly creature distantly related to 
dragons. They live underground where they are blind and limbless, 
as well as a sickly pale color like a titanic maggot. Linnorms 
exist to cause destruction but hibernate for much of their lives, 
making them a fairly rare monster encounter. Greedy or over 
ambitious adventurers have gone after their hoards, however, and 
most only succeed in waking the Linnorm up and causing untold 
devastation on the countryside. The Linnorm’s wake of rot and 
death can ruin farmland for generations, making their long game 
more dangerous and impactful than the short-term conflict.

Linnorm Huge, Solitary

Smash (1D10+2 Damage)+ Forceful 12HP/4ARM

Close, Reach

Linnorms are huge, blind dragon-like creatures that hunt via 
their acute sense of smell. They hoard trash and treasure alike 
and can hibernate for years at a time. In addition to their 
smashing attacks strong enough to level a village, they also belch 
a disgusting poison gas that can cause a temporary blindness or 
violent retching in any creature caught off their guard.

Instinct:

 Rot the earth and destroy landmarks of civilization

Moves:

 Hoard

 Belch poisonous fumes

 Travel underground at high speeds


 Lagertha and Hirodis were both in rough shape and the site 
of their battle was blasted with scorchmarks and the pungent smell 
of something poisonous and rotten. The Linnorm had been close to 
succumbing when it had abruptly changed tactics and burrowed 
underground, traveling just under the topsoil at an alarming rate. 
Hirodis had watching the disturbed earth uproot trees as it traveled, 
only for them- and the grass- to rot before their very eyes as the earth 
turned black.

 When they had pursued it to the edge of the forest, a terrible 
sight greeted them. Skoglund was in chaos, the fields were 
overturned, the crops blackened, wilted, and rotting. Some houses 
had collapsed under the foundational disturbance and the smell of 
something putrid and dank wafted from the blighted land.

Ljúga

 
The word ljúga means ‘lie’ or ‘false’ in Old Norse- which 
fits this particular animal because it lays huge golden eggs that 
tempt many novice adventurers to steal them. This has made the 
ljúga an extremely territorial animal. Technically, the ljúga is a 
type of Fae creature but its intelligence is more typical of beasts. 
Standing at about 7ft tall, these ugly terrors are both monstrous 
and extremely intimidating when you factor in their unusually 
aggressive behaviors. Their false-golden eggs are worthless as a 
smithing material but the right arcanist might pay a fortune for 
one.

Ljúga Solitary

Maul (1D10 damage) 12HP/2ARM

Regurgitate Acid (1D8 damage) + Ignores Armor

Gnarled, spiky bird-like creature that possess an untamable, 
feral nature. They are extremely territorial and the mothers will 
relentlessly attack anything they believe to be a threat to their 
fledglings. Ljúga can swell up to twice their normal size by extending 
their wings and rattling their spiny feathers to stand on 
end... and the hissing acid it produces is strong enough to melt 
iron.

Instincts:

 Viciously defend nest

Moves:

 Puff up to intimidate

 Spit acid

 Ninga was backed against a cliff face with a golden, 
spherical object cradled in her arm. When the ljúga had charged 
her from the brush, screaming at the top of its lungs she had realized 
that what she had picked up was not metal, but an egg. Of course, 
her instincts had kicked in and she had bolted without putting the 
egg back in its nest first and now, a crazed ljúga had cornered her 
in the shallow ravine. It hissed, a horrible, gargling noise that- if 
Ninga was honest with herself- scared the hell out of her. Its spiny 
feathers rattled and its body swelled up to monstrous proportions 
and it bent its sharp head down and struck. Ninga was nothing 
if not a ball of highly agitated reflexes, though, and she slashed out 
with her sword. The ljúga recoiled and spat a blob of black acid, 
catching end of the blade and to Ninga’s utter horror, melted it like 
hot wax.

Mermaid

 There are mermaid-like creatures in almost every mythological 
canon the world over, preying on the universal wariness 
of the sea and the punishment for succumbing to the temptation 
of someone alluring and seemingly beautiful. Mermaids are 
especially prevalent in Greco-Roman, Celtic, and Scandinavian 
myths and they all take forms that are reasonably similar- a 
humanoid fish creature that appears beautiful at first glance, with 
a heavenly voice but who will drag you into the cold depths to 
eat once they ensnare you and reveal their true monstrous nature. 
To counterbalance this, though, is the plethora of tales from half-
drowned sailors swearing to be saved by a beautiful person with a 
fish’s tail.

Mermaid Group, Stealthy

Rend (1D8 damage)+ Messy 6HP / 2ARM

Close, Reach

Most mermaids are out to consume flesh- they’ll take on the 
forms of beautiful women with glittering fish tails, singing songs 
so lovely that it clouds the minds of men until they throw themselves 
overboard. Mermaids also tend to swarm around shipwrecks, 
picking off sailors to drag to the sea floor. Occasionally, 
one might hear of mermaids who save drowning men, but the 
truth of these tales is hotly debated.

Instinct:

 To prey on interlopers

Moves:

 Seduce humanoids with magical allure

 Drown and eat victims 


 Kveld usually hit the drink hard after coming ashore and it’s 
why most ignored him when he came back from a short excursion 
gone awry. He’d fallen off the boat during a storm and had prayed 
to Frigg to preserve him. The life had almost left his body in the 
cold, crushing depths when- and he swore it was true, up and down, 
no matter how drunk he got- a pair of strong arms encircled him. 
A man, he swore, had pulled him from the sea to leave him in a 
gentle neck of shoreline a few miles away. Kveld admitted his 
consciousness was touch and go for a while but consistently 
described a beautiful man, strapping and strong with a long plait 
of onyx-black hair- had smiled at him, showing a row of viciously 
pointed teeth. From his prone position on land, Kveld said he could 
see the man’s lower half- a thick, finned tale covered in black scales 
interlaid with violet shimmers.

Níðhöggr

 
The Níðhöggr is an ancient and terrible dragon that is 
cursed to live out its apparently immortal existence trapped 
in the tangled roots of Yggdrasil. The Níðhöggr is so cursed 
that simply speaking its name aloud is said to leave the speaker 
vulnerable to taking on a portion of the beast’s never-ending 
suffering and pain. Because of this, most simply refer to it as 
the Curse Striker but most good people of Stromgard refrain 
from even saying that. Even depicting this furious monster in 
artworks or rune-stones is considered an ill-advised endeavor as 
the wrath of this semi-deity can apparently be felt across all nine 
realms.


Níðhöggr Devious, Magical

The Níðhöggr is a hideous dragon entangled in the roots of 
Yggdrasil and the beast has been trying to chew his way out for 
ages. Should Níðhöggr ever make it to the surface, rampant, 
cataclysmic destruction would closely follow.

Instinct:

 Escape the roots of Yggdrasil

 Lash out in pain

Moves:

 Spread suffering

 Breathe fire

 Destroy life


 Alr was quick on his feet but he was barely staying out of the 
warpath of the thing rampaging behind him. His success in 
locating and freeing the Níðhöggr (a reckless plan to gain the 
attention of the gods) had quickly disintegrated. He could barely 
make out the shape of the huge, thrashing beast as it seemed to be 
utterly possessed by rage, crashing into the bramble-covered cavern 
walls and screaming bloody murder at the top of its voice, the noise 
echoing down the stone tunnel and making Alr’s head spin. The 
temperature suddenly spiked around him and he chanced a glance 
backwards to ascertain the monster’s next move when a column of 
arcane, violet fire blasted up towards him. He could feel the hair on 
his arms and face singing as the ball of light and heat rocketed into 
him.

Storrkatt

 
The word stórr means ‘big’ in Old Norse and Stromgard 
was in need of a large feline predator basically from conception. 
The Storrkatt was an obvious answer to this. The Storrkatt’s 
prowess and legendary size are loosely based off legends of 
magically enlarged wild cats from a many Irish and Welsh tales. 
Like most cats, the Storrkatt is a clever and capable hunter but 
cautious and prioritizes survival over conflict unless it is gravely 
wounded or protecting its young. The Storrkatt always carefully 
sizes up its prey before lunging and unless it is fairly certain 
it can take the its target down without much of a fight, it will 
probably pass on for easier meat. 


Storrkatt Stealthy

Maul (1D8 damage)+ Messy 10HP/1ARM

Close, Reach

Storrkatts will do what they can to avoid an open fight, either 
by stalking their prey patiently for miles or running away if they 
think there’s a chance they could sustain significant injury. A 
cornered or desperate Storrkatt, however, is a hellish monster 
that will tear you to pieces the instant it gets its claws into flesh.

Instinct:

 To pick off the vulnerable

Moves:

 Find an opportunity to escape

 Ambush

 Patiently stalk

 Bloðorn the hunter had traveled to this remote mountain to 
hunt a Storrkatt... to add to his pelt collection but he’d taken a bad 
step on the pass and now lay immobile in a shallow outcropping he 
had dragged himself to a few hours ago. His broken leg pulsed with 
agony and was unable to support his weight in any capacity. The 
sound of a dislodged pebble made him crunch up, his senses on high 
alert for danger. And, by Thor, he had certainly found it. A huge 
mountain cat- big as a horse- was stalking slowly towards him, bold 
as can be, sensing its prey was weakened. Its eyes- ice blue and 
vertically slitted- were dilated and fixed with unswerving intensity 
on Bloðorn’s broken body. Its paws were silent against the rocky 
surface but he had no problem imagining what those claws would 
look like when they weren’t retracted. He reached for his dagger and 
took a steadying breath.

Surt

 Surt is a towering giant and pure, destructive chaos 
deified who is destined to consume the world in unholy flame. 
Ragnarök ultimately hinges around Surt escaping his prison 
in the ash-and-fire plane of Muspelheim and raining havoc on 
the rest of existence. Tales of Surt’s physical appearance center 
around the translation of the word surtr to mean ashy or swarthy, 
building on Surt’s construction as an entity of pure fire. Surt is 
also supposedly a colossus, in terms of scale. His footsteps were 
said to level mountains and his flaming sword capable of setting 
the tree of life ablaze.

MONSTERS

Surt Intelligent, Planar

Surt is a colossal humanoid figure of pure fire and malice, bent 
on splitting the earth open and hurling cataclysm onto all nine 
realms. Above all else, Surt hates the gods of Asgard and their- 
to his mind- unrightful domination of the worlds.

Instinct:

 Destroy Asgard

 Unmake the Worlds

Moves:

 Exist as pure planar fire

 Flaming sword

 Create volcanic fissures in footsteps

 Scar the earth

 Burn constructs of divinity

 Relentless perseverance

 Mar’s whole world was falling apart, literally, as the 
towering, vaguely humanoid form of white hot fire knelt with a 
lumbering kind of threat towards the portal to the Bifrost. Most of 
the other dwarves had died in the initial assault. Surt had stomped 
the mountain flat and his armies of fire imps had laid waste to the 
survivors. Mar knew damn well what it was trying to do, even 
before it forced its flaming hands into the light and began prying 
apart the arcane frame with pure, primordial might. A sound like 
a thunderclap rent the air and the giant had broken through, 
bending to force its way into the extraplanar realm on his way to 
Asgard.

Vargar

 Vargar, similar to dire wolves, are what evolved into 
modern fantasy’s wargs. These huge, wolf-like animals were 
taken from historical lore and popularized in high fantasy fiction 
by J. R.R. Tolkien. In his books, the wargs are typically mounts 
for orc scouts and it really solidified their place in the modern 
fantasy canon as it got reinterpreted into Dungeons & Dragons, 
board games, novels, and other rpgs. 

 In Stromgard, vargar are huge and wolf-like as you would 
expect, playing into the Norse concept of ‘primordial’ or ancient 
forms that most beasts were said to possess at one point. Specifically, 
the vargar are descended from Fenrir, the giant wolf 
destined to eat the world during Ragnarök.

Vargar Group, Large

Bite (1D10 damage) 10HP / 0ARM

Close, Reach

Vargar tend to hunt in packs of 3-6 and are quite clever. They 
can track prey for miles with their keen sense of smell and their 
eyesight is sharp, even in dark environments. Its jaws are huge 
and a good bite from one can take out a horse. 

Instinct:

 Hunt prey as a pack

Mover:

 Surround and flank

 Track

 Pursue fleeing prey relentlessly

 Nefr and Gagnráðr could outrun the couple of vargar hot on 
their heels. They had horses, after all, and they had the advantage 
of endurance. The rough foothills of the Iron Mountains limited 
their movement somewhat, keeping them close together as their 
mounts plunged through the paths and jutting rock formations with 
fleet steps and the occasional whinny of effort.

 Nefir looked up abruptly as a shadow passed overhead and 
her heart sank. Vargar were up on the ridge, just to their left, along 
with the pair still barking and snarling at their heels. She whipped 
her head to the right and found three more vargar giving them a 
slightly wide berth, running to keep up but watching carefully. 
“We’re surrounded!” she called to Gagnráðr, panic lacing her voice. 
“We’re being herded!”


Vaxa Ormr

 There are plenty of tales regarding the titanic serpent 
wrapped around Midgard and the Vaxa Ormr, while much smaller, 
is like something born from a nightmare. Black as sin with 
huge yellow eyes, this demonic serpent wants little more than 
to cause as much chaos and destruction as possible. While Vaxa 
Ormr sightings are rare (they do not live on Midgard long term, 
it seems) the legendary warrior Thorfinn slew one that measured 
almost 70ft long and weigh nearly half a ton. Vaxa Ormr are 
often mistaken for Midgard Serpent by those lacking a good size 
reference but this titanic snake is huge and terrifying in its own 
right.

Vaxa Ormr Terrifying, Solitary, Huge

Tail Swipe (1D10+3 damage) 22HP/4ARM

Bite (1D10 damage)+ Messy

Reach

Vaxa Ormr are gigantic serpents that find their way onto 
Midgard occasionally and wreak as much destruction as 
possible. They are huge, heavy, and clever- they can easily wipe 
out a legion of well trained warriors with a swipe of its tail. A 
few legends survive depicting mortal fighters who managed to 
take one down, but they are a terrifying monster against whom 
only clever planning, tactical advantage, and skill will overcome.

Instinct:

 Lie in wait to ambush

Moves:

 Destroy constructs of man

 Lightning fast strikes

 Agnar threw a freezing blast of hail in the snake’s hellish, 
pointed face but it seemed to only anger the great beast more. 
It’s sharp head kept darting down at the guardsmen attempting 
to rally a coherent attack, picking them off one at a time to the 
constant clamor of armor and screaming. Its great black tail 
came next, sweeping most of the armed contingent off its feet. 
Agnar was a bit quicker than that, though, and he pivoted on his 
feet deftly as the snake’s golden eyes seem to pinpoint him next. A 
lance of clear, crystalline ice materialized in his hand at a quick 
prompting and he braced it under his elbow as the monstrous, 
fanged head darted down with incredible speed. The lance tip 
hit home but so did a fang and Agnar felt sudden, terrible pain 
ripping up his arm and into his shoulder.
