Notable Places

The horse shall run not
whereon thou ridest,
Though fain thou art
thy foe to flee

Helgakviða Hundingsbana II

 Stromgard lies near one of the extreme northern edges 
of Midgard and while the winters are harsh and long, pleasant 
and mild summers melt the ice floes and open up passage to the 
southern world. The entirety of Stromgard is huge but populations 
are clustered, leaving vast swaths of rugged land isolated. 
Dense forests stretch across most of the northern borders of the 
realm, full of dangerous beasts and sometimes worse, if rumors 
are to be believed. The Vidrmaark is the largest and densest of 
these, said to be home to all manner of monsters, witches, and 
feral nature cults. One main thoroughfare- Jurgen Road- cuts 
through most of the realm from north to south and is generally 
safe enough for travel so long as you don’t look like too easy of 
a target for bandits. To the north and west is the huge mountain 
range known as Serpent’s Back- it stretches far northward 
for hundreds of miles. The tallest peak of the range, and of 
all Stromgard, is Mt. Himmin, whose sharp peaks are always 
shrouded in cloud. Somewhere in this range is the Elvish community 
of Dalle, reportedly carved directly in to one of these 
snowy peaks. At the southernmost point of Serpent’s Back, after 
a fertile stretch of valley, is Lake Calenhad. The basin that forms 
this massive lake is said to be a crater left behind from a deadly 
Aesir/Vanir conflict eons ago, though now it is a gentle sanctuary 
for many kinds of fish. Further south still is Gandrmyr, the regional 
name for Spirit’s Mire. Like the Vidrmaark, Gandrmyr is 
the subject of endless rumors and legends. Most maintain that 
many powerful witches and druids seek a special kind of wood 
only found here, indeed the word ‘gandr’ refers to magical wands 
and staves. Rumors also claim that fae traverse this swamp 
regularly. At the southern border of Stromgard, Brattr’s Peak- 
the second tallest peak in the region- stretches up to the heavens 
in the middle of the rugged and jagged expanse called the Iron 
Mountains. One of the major dwarven cities is here, dug into 
the base of a deep, rocky chasm and rumored to be illuminated 
by enchanted stones. 

 Stromgard is bordered to the west by the Black Band, a 
wide, incredibly deep expanse of water that leads to the sea. The 
Black Band is treacherous and often underestimated by green 
sailors leaving on their first conquest since it usually appears to 
be calm while vicious riptides churn just below the surface. Part 
of the Black Band pools east, creating the large inlet against 
which the capital of Stromgard sits. Also named Stromgard, the 
capital city is home to the high king and the biggest naval fleet 
in the region. Central Stromgard is mostly gentle, rolling hills 
and fertile soil... and therefore where the majority of established 
settlements are located. Nottrn Lakes are a collection of small, 
ice cold lakes that feed from the Iron Mountains and which 
provide ample fish for the surrounding villages.

Steadings and Landmarks

Skoglund: Small village that is decidedly not notable. Currently 
in a near-exodus status as trade fails and a bad knurtr raid 
compromised the community’s food supply. Their only value is 
the religious symbol- an ancient apple tree- growing in the 
center of town that used to be a mini pilgrimage for other isolated 
villages. Dirt poor, Shrinking, No Defense.

Grelund: Idyllic little village not far off Jurgen road. They raise 
goats and sheep and are well known for their hospitality. While 
several days’ journey from Skoglund, they used to trade labor 
and goods before Skoglund’s troubles. 
Poor, Steady, Militia (some able bodied men and women with old weapons), Safe

Askrbelt: Prosperous village that helps maintain Jurgen Road 
by patrolling it. They charge a toll to help cover the costs. The 
town is walled off to protect its citizens from goblin harassment, 
though there is quite a bit of farmland in the open. The town 
has a builder’s guild, a blacksmith, an open market, two taverns, 
a butcher, a brewer’s, and a constabulary with two holding cells. 
Moderate, Growing, Guarded.

Haedborg: Large town right off of the main fork of Jurgen 
Road. This town has a large population, even in the summer, 
and produces enough to be able to send supplies and aid during 
times of crisis. Rumor has it that the land is always healthy 
and fertile due to a long standing pact with neighboring fae. 
Wealthy, Growing, Guarded, Resource (Foodstuffs/Lumber), 
History (miracle)

Port of Stromgard: The wealthiest steading in the realm and 
also the largest. Stromgard is a defensible city with stone walls 
and a trained, well equipped guard that is well organized. The 
high king’s naval fleet and tentative power over the other steadings 
is what backs Stromgard’s authority. The entire western 
portion of Stromgard backs into the Black Band with huge, 
well made piers, a shipyard, barracks, and training grounds for 
warriors and sailors. Stromgard also boasts the largest marketplace 
in not only the realm but also in the corner of the world. 
Vikings and sailors bring back all manner of strange and exotic 
products from their travels. Many people who are conscripted 
also end up in Stromgard once their forced-contracts are up, 
creating pockets of expats from far-flung cultures. Most freed 
conscripts set up in Stromgard to gain access to the shipyard in 
the hopes they can buy passage or a ship itself to return. Some 
simply end up staying to make a life for themselves. There are also a few 
academic institutions in Stromgard dedicated to 
learning and the magical arts. 
Rich, Steady, Garrison, Exotic (raw materials, arcane knowledge, culture), 
Oath (to protect and lead the realm’s other steadings), Market, Arcane, 
Personage (high king), Power
