Race Playbooks

All the witches spring from Witolf,

All the warlocks are of Willharm,

And the spell-singers spring from Swarthead,

All the ogres of Ymir come.

Out of the Ice-waves issued venom-drops,

Waxing until a giant was,

Thence are our kindred come all together-

So it is they are savage forever.

Gylfaginning, Prose Edda 

 The Race Playbooks of Stromgard are a little different 
from the other classes. These characters must be played as their 
listed races because their moves (and thus their skills) derive 
from their specific cultural background and physical traits. Also, 
their physical appearance and heritage will have a more pronounced 
effect on their relationships with the rest of Stromgard’s 
citizens. These characters are immortal to some degree and 
typically do not age once they reach maturity- although all of 
them can be killed, just as any mortal. They are also quite 
powerful in their own rights. On the other hand, these 
character archetypes also come with distinct disadvantages as 
well, making their immense boons more of a trade off. These 
playbooks are fun for players of all skill levels but they tend to 
make an exceptionally fun option for the player looking for 
something new.

THE FAE

And when he came around to the land he went to the west side of Iceland, North 
around the land, where he saw all the mountains and hills full of Guardian-
Spirits, some great, some small

Heimskringla

 The word 'fae' is technically an umbrella term for several 
races of lesser demigods and nature spirits who populate the 
quiet places of Stromgard. Because of the vast amount of 
diversity in their looks compared to their relatively similar 
behavior, most people simply refer to any non-mortal, non-
Jötnar being as a fae until corrected.

 Fae have a huge range in physical appearance but they are 
nearly all deemed to be attractive to other mortals- though this 
is typically a product of the fae’s own desires magically manifested 
and their semi-malleable form. Fae aren’t usually in possession 
of fearsome strength but they are wily and are exceedingly 
talented at gaining leverage over others... their looks are merely 
another tool of their trade. Blessed and cursed with strange 
magicks, fae are also beholden to their own powers. They typically 
hunger for something and desire it so constantly that it 
drives them to obsession and is typically the foundation for most 
of their moral compass. Fae also carry a specific weakness and 
they’ll employ all manner of devious tricks in order to keep 
mortals from discovering it and exploiting their powers.

 Universally, fae are excellent at taking oaths and 
bargains- performing some magical service for someone dumb 
enough or desperate enough to agree to whatever exploitive 
nonsense the fae can pass off as reasonable. Taking an oath with 
a fae, unlike any other mortal, is magically binding and doing so 
without fully understanding the terms can have disastrous 
consequences.

Choose a Name

Mim, Oydis, Dagna, Asmund, Eydis, Laufsblad, Leka, Hallr, 
Stikla, Festa, Taka, Hafa, Bregda, Althjof, Hraun, Almr, Gleidr, 
Mersing, Snjallr, Andi, Ond, Ljoss, Brunn, Brenna, Lios, 
Margbrytinn, Gaetinn, Rista, Kottr, Glathr, Ryothr, Eir, Vaettr, 
Dalr, Lysa, Dofni, Dufa, Olr, Tun, Orn, Elgr, By, Mikinn, 
Fjorthr

Vitals

Max HP is 6+CON

Base Damage is 1D6

Build a Fae

Choose your characteristics 

Choose a Tell

Some magical features cannot be hidden

 Glowing eyes

 Pupil-less eyes

 Slitted or horizontal pupils

 Crystalline skin

 Scales

 Tail

 Horns

 Antennae

 Other

Choose a Desire

All Fae have a hunger they must feed instead of a typical alignment

 Mortal servants or companions

 Chaos

 Justice

 The protection of something sacred

 Pleasure

 To punish the sacrilegious

Choose an Affinity

All Fae are attuned to a natural force

 Air

 Earth

 Water
 
 Fire

 Light

 Shadow

Choose a Weakness

All Fae have an unswerving weakness to a counterforce. You are 
unable to interact with one of the following:

 Pure iron

 Thresholds (you must be invited to pass through them)

 Bells

 Unable to directly lie

 Medicinal Herbs


Starting Moves

Double Edge

Take an additional Weakness for an additional Affinity.

Attuned

When you cast a spell with your element describe how you take 
control of your surroundings and to what effect, then roll +INT. 
On a 10+ you achieve your intended effect. On a 7-9 you can 
manage a weaker version of your intent plus it causes an unexpected 
side effect. The GM will tell you what.

Variable Shape

A fae’s shape is limited only by their power. Once per long rest, 
you may change your shape to any size between one and seven 
feet tall.

Terms and Conditions

Any party who enters into a bargain with a fae and fails to 
uphold their end of it is cursed. The GM will tell you how.

Light Hands

When you steal a small, interesting item without being motivated 
by its monetary value, roll +WIS. On a 10+ the item comes in 
handy later on and serves its purpose well. On a 7-9 you find a 
neat use for it but the item’s original owner discovers you have it.

Gear

Begin with this equipment

Your load is 7+ STR. 

You start with Adventuring Gear (5 uses, 1 weight) and 1 
Healing Potion (0 weight)

Choose one:

 Holy oil for blessing or anointing (0 weight)

 Flask of wickedly strong alcohol (1 weight)

Choose your weapon:

 Oak Staff (close, two-handed, 1 weight)

 Painted Rod (hand, 1 weight)

Bonds:

Explore with others before starting or write your own

 
and I have made an accord.

I want 
to tell me their true name.

 
wants something from me. I might be 
convinced to oblige.

Advanced Moves:

When you take a level between 2-5, choose one of the following

Tricksy

You always have leverage during Parley.

Prank

When you play a prank on a gormless bystander that causes immense 
distress or hilarity, mark EXP.

Charming

When you tell someone to do something that they are hesitant or 
reluctant to do, roll +CHA. On a 10+ the subject is in a 
delicate hypnotic state and will oblige your request unless it 
directly contradicts their morals. On a 7-9 the subject will still 
do what you ask but it will know that you are influencing them.

Dream Reader

When you stare at a sleeping person, roll +WIS. On a 10+ you 
gain clear images of their dreams as well as a sense of whether 
or not they have dreamed the same dream before. On a 7-9 the 
images are vague and abstract.

Blood Promise

A willing ally may choose to give you 1D4 healing at the cost of 
1D4 damage to themselves.

Fairy Gold

When you pay for goods and services with fake currency that turns 
into worthless material in a day, roll +CHA. On a miss, they 
immediately notice you’re not good for cash and you’ll face the
consequences of trying to pull a fast one.

Partake

When you offer food to someone and they acquiesce, they heal 
1D6. However, they are now beholden to you for a favor or else 
they’ll take a debility.

True Name

When you know someone’s full and true name, take a +1 against 
them.

Drain

When you slow mortals down by feeding off their energy, roll 
+WIS. On a 10+ heal 1D4 damage and all targets in a 10ft radius 
move as though heavily encumbered and exhausted. On a 
7-9, one target you touch will be slowed.

Minor Illusion

When you bend reality itself to your will, roll +CHA. On a 10+ 
gain 3 hold. On a 7-9 gain 2. Spend hold, one for one, on the 
following:

 Illusion can be seen

 Illusion can be heard

 Illusion can be smelled

 Illusion can be touched or touch something

 Illusion lasts longer than one minute

 Illusion can affect up to five targets.

Blend

When you craft a new look for yourself and describe how you 
cover your Tell, roll +CHA. On a 10+ the disguise will fool 
anyone who isn’t specifically wizened in the ways of fae or on the 
lookout for you specifically. On a 7-9 the disguise will fool 
anyone who does not give you more than a precursory glance. 
This will not alter your smell, voice, size, or mannerisms.

Mortal Pawns

When you Aid or Interfere with a mortal they take a +1 or -1 to 
their next action as well, respectively.

Advanced Moves:

When you take a level between 6-10, choose one of the following

Compelling

Replaces: Charming

When you bend someone to your will and command them to do 
something, roll +CHA. On a 10+ they obey your orders even 
if it goes against their alignment. On a 7-9 they obey but they 
are aware of your influence and will regain themselves once their 
task is complete.

Reaching Illusion

Requires: Minor Illusion

Increase the limitation of your illusion from five targets to a total 
of fifteen.

Conceal

When you hold still in relative shadow, you cannot be seen by 
nonmagical means.

Malleable Form

Requires: Blend

You may now choose to add the following conditions to your 
total pool for creating disguises.

 Your Tell is concealed

 Your voice matches your target

 You accurately impersonate someone you’ve never 
seen

 Change size for free, if necessary.

Loaded Bargain

When you strike a deal with someone, roll +CHA. On a 10+ you 
exploit the terms so that you greatly benefit from the arrangement 
and they do not. The GM will help you decide how.

THE TROLL

Trolls call me

Moon of Dwelling-Rungnir,

Giant’s wealth-sucker,

Storm-sun’s bale,

Seeress’s companion,

Guardian of corpse-fjord,

Swallower of heaven-wheel,

What is a troll other than that? 

Skáldskaparmál, Prose Edda

 Trolls are almost universally feared and reviled in 
Stromgard. Most of the mortal races treat them like monsters 
and typically try to hunt or at least drive them away on sight. 
Many trolls are maneaters, however, and it would be unfair to 
say the general fear surrounding them is entirely unfounded. 
But trolls are more complex than perhaps first glance may tell.

 Firstly, trolls vary greatly in physical appearance, some are 
tall, thickly built human-sized beings that are said to be quite 
beautiful, even despite the long tufted tail. Others are quite 
monstrous in appearance, some towering larger than even the 
Jötunnborn, with a thick hide and oversized canines for 
shredding meat. Of all trolls, these more threatening looking 
specimens will find the most difficulty interacting with other 
races save for the Jötnar. Trolls are, no matter what their 
appearance however, typically treated with what ranges from 
immediate suspicion in the best case scenario to outright 
hostility depending on a wide range of factors.

 A lot of myths about shifty, feral trolls comes from the 
fact that these creatures cannot stand in the light of the sun, 
lest they turn to stone in a matter of seconds. Paired with the 
troll’s massive physical strength and their immense constitution 
(thanks to their unholy metabolism that feeds into rapid 
regeneration of damaged tissue), trolls strike fear into the hearts
of all mortals. And because mortals are constantly invading 
troll-lands to build new settlements, tensions are at a breaking 
point.

Choose a Name

Vorr, Trond, Bard, Hugi, Grim, Tove, Yrsa, Fen, Nár, Orm, Kor, 
Keld, Gull, Fiske, Fell, Crow, Greip, Hrym, Pir, Gint, Nith, 
Gorr, Aurr, Berr, Ny, Nott, Eik, Minn, Forn, Ell, Kyn, Othr, Ux, 
Fol, Mol, Lith, Grof, Borth, Gras, Hyl, Sipill, Ausa, Vald, Ven, 
Traust, Skott, Kyr, Set, Gil

Choose a Look

Body: Huge, hairy, knuckle-dragger, spindly, fair

Eyes: Beady, feral, soft

Hair: Bald, matted, shiny

Clothes: Rotted rags, scavenged scraps, whole and well-kept

Vitals

Max HP is 10+CON

Base Damage is 1D10

Background

Choose your heritage 

Passably Human

You’re able to blend in to most human settlements as long as 
they can overlook your nocturnal lifestyle, long tufted tail, and 
hairy feet. Take +1 to CON and -1 to both WIS and INT. 

Intermediary

At first glance, you’re obviously inhuman, standing nearly seven 
and a half feet all and weighing more than a fully grown bull. 
But you have two arms, two legs, and only one head so interacting 
with others isn’t impossible. Take +1 to CON and -1 to 
WIS.

Monstrous

You’re just over eight feet tall, your body is solid like a rock wall. 
You’ve got huge, predatory teeth, a vicious face, and angry, feral 
eyes. People lay one look at your and flee screaming. Take +2 to 
CON, but -2 to both WIS and INT.

Starting Moves:

Governed by Light

Trolls suffer petrification when exposed to sunlight- it is their 
greatest weakness. As time flows, the following things can 
happen:

 During Daylight

 If exposed to direct sunlight, troll flesh will turn to 
stone permanently. The warmth of the sun’s rays feel 
like an acid burn and the painful effect will radiate up 
the victim’s entire body.

 A troll’s regenerative power does not work on 
sun-petrified areas.

 Sunlight petrifies almost instantly and petrified limbs 
cannot be regenerated, even if they are hacked off.

During the Night

 Treat any failure on a Take Watch roll as an automatic 
7-9. 

 If your party members fail a Take Watch roll, even if 
you were not elected to Take Watch, roll +CON. On a 
10+, treat it as though you had been actively Taking 
Watch.

 Fire and lightning inspire a special wariness in you. Take 
-1 forward while operating around either.

Regenerate

You have an available pool of HP that you can pull from to heal 
yourself whenever you choose. Your pool total is equal to your 
CON score. When you deplete these points, go into a feeding 
frenzy to curb your hunger. The frenzy lasts until you have fully 
restored your regeneration pool by gorging yourself with Hunger 
feedings. 

Hunger

You have an insatiable appetite that must be fed. Doing so 
restores an amount equal to your CON modifier to your total 
available regeneration pool. Any time you wish to feed, choose 
one:

Rock

 Consuming rocks sates your hunger. The higher the 
value- enchanted jewels, stones of a holy building, 
etc- the less you need to consume. Typically, 100lbs 
of mundane or common material constitutes a feeding. 
Each feeding restores you CON modifier to your total 
available regeneration pool.

 Flesh

 You’re nightmare fuel at its most rudimentary. When you 
consume the flesh of someone, take +1 ongoing against 
any who saw the act. One adult human is one feeding. 
Each feeding restores your CON modifier to your total 
available regeneration pool. 

Darkvision

You can see in the dark perfectly, magical darkness is still a 
hindrance.

Impenetrable Hide

Your natural armor is +2

Alignment

Choose your leaning 

Chaotic

Continuously eat, even when it’s not necessary.

Evil

Specifically target the weak and helpless while rampaging or 
feeding.

Gear

Begin with this equipment

Your load is 10+ STR. 

Choose your weapon:

 Heavy Club (Forceful, +1 damage, close, 2 weight)

 Sling (near, 1 weight) and Heavy Stones (x5 ammo, 2 
weight)

Choose one:

 Adventuring Gear (5 uses, 1 weight)

 Healing Potion (1 weight)

Bonds

Explore with others before starting or write your own

 
has made me think hard about my life.

 
is just another dirty squatter taking up troll-
land.

 
plays fancy and civilized but they’re no 
different.

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 2-5, choose one of the following

Bergtanging

When you take back land from humanity for Troll-kind, take +1
forward against your victims, in either attack actions or Parley.

Familial Bonds

When you appeal to another troll for aid, roll +CON. On a 10+ 
you can ask them three questions. On a 7-9 ask two. If the troll 
you ask doesn’t already know, they can return to you in a day or 
two with some pertinent information.

Brute

When performing a feat of brute strength, take +1.

Monster

When you Parley with any non-troll, you can use STR to intimidate.

Dense

Mind control intended for targets of human intelligence or 
greater doesn’t work on you.

Surprisingly Agile

Take +1 to Defy Danger DEX rolls.

Sack

Target the strongest or most threatening fighter amongst your 
enemies and take +1 to attack rolls when you charge straight at 
them.

Unstoppable force

When you attack three different targets in succession, roll 1D6 
extra damage on the fourth.

Filthy

You’re immune to naturally occurring filth and diseases.

Leathery Hide

Take +1 Armor.

Bite

When you get close enough to grab someone smaller than you and 
sink your nasty teeth into them, deal damage and mark off one 
feeding. If you finish an enemy off with Bite, heal 1D4.

Advanced Moves:

When you take a level between 6-10, choose one of the following

Critical Hit

When you Hack & Slash, on a 10+ roll damage a second time.

Sharp Sense

You can’t be taken by surprise.

Barrage

When you Hack & Slash with at least three targets within reach, 
hit all of them for full weapon damage.

Wide Swing

When you Hack & Slash, even on a miss you still deal 1D4 
damage.

Smash

When you strike a creature of Small or Tiny size, you flatten it 
into the ground on a 10+. If it had a corporeal body, you kill it instantly.

Meat Tank

Take +1 Armor

Shield Breaker

When you specifically target the shield of an opposing warrior, roll 
+STR. On a 10+, you break their shield, rendering it unusable 
and leaving your enemy vulnerable. On a 7-9, you knock it 
aside, opening them up to an attack from one of your allies- they 
will be able to regain themselves after that.

Never Tell Me the Odds

When you attack an enemy that clearly outpaces you and pay no 
mind to your chances of success, add your CON modifier to 
your damage done against them.

Wrecking Ball

A heavy blow from your fists deals +1 damage and takes the 
Messy tag.

THE ALFIR

Many places are there and glorious. That which is called Álfheimr is one,
where dwell the peoples called Light-Elves; 
... fairer to look upon than the sun.  

Gylfaginning, Prose Edda

 The Light Elves, or Alfir, as they call themselves, are a 
subrgroup of Vanir gods that live on the plane of Alfheim and 
worship the god of light, Freyr. On the mortal realm of Midgard, 
most common elves and even some rural humans revere 
the Alfir. They, the Vanir, and the divine moon elves (the 
Nithfir), had multiple bloody conflicts with the Aesir deities of 
Asgard many ages ago and after much strife, they have entirely 
submitted, aligning themselves more closely with the Aesir, 
valuing order and governance not only among their people, but 
others as well.

 Alfir descend to Midgard for many reasons, though as a 
group they are typically quite invested in the spread of civilization. 
Alfir are at home on the battlefield, though they are rarely 
a bloodthirsty people, making excellent rallying points to other 
warriors and bolstering their comrades. The power available to 
them as demigods makes them a powerful ally and a relentless 
threat to their enemies. They can conjure magical arms and 
armament out of thin air, speak directly into someone’s mind, 
draw energy from their surroundings, and heal with a touch. 
While ultimately killable, the otherwise immortal Alfir are 
considered invariably beautiful and radiate a faint holy light 
about them at all times. Legends say that they know instantly 
when they are being lied to and some wilder tales even describe 
Alfar speeding up the passage of the seasons to perform unheard 
of miracles.

 As a group, the Alfir ardently disapprove of the resistant,
chaotic ways of the Jötnar and those who have interacted with 
both sides know the general enmity towards each other is a 
dangerous, volatile mix.

Choose a Name

Morkret, Gullveig, Álfhildr, Örvar, Rán, Ivaldi, Lothen, 
Aragan, Aif, Fredo, Feydis, Folke, Alva, Hagan, Hella, Jerrik, 
Ive, Gormir, Trygve, Van, Esthra, Raynor, Liv, Aaric, Thurida, 
Alfrothul, Ase, Aren, Gala, Sturla, Aud, Ulfr, Hildeberh, Signy, 
Harald, Freawaur, Hakon

Choose a Look

Body: Slender, willowy, soft, muscular

Eyes: Soulful, sparkling, unearthly

Hair: Swept back, braided, adorned with flowers

Clothes: Flowing furs, fine cloth, well-made leathers

Vitals

Max HP is 8+CON

Base Damage is 1D6

Background

Choose your heritage 

Celestial

Your home is in Alfheim, not on the mundane realm of 
Midgard. Your superiors, however, believe that you would 
benefit from mortal interactions. Take +1 to Parley rolls in
formal settings but -1 to Discern Realities rolls during crises.

Promised

You live for some greater purpose and your clan is eagerly setting 
you through trials to prove that you are ready. Take +1 to all 
Spout Lore rolls about anything involving Alfir society.

Silver-tongued

You’re a gifted diplomat and a persuasive force. Take +1 to 
Parley against anyone caught in a petty mortal squabble.

Starting Moves

You start with these moves

Prestidigitation

Your kind rarely deign to do mundane tasks by hand. Instead, 
whenever you need to complete a simple task- light a candle, dry 
clothing, style hair, pack a bag, etc- you can simply do it with 
your innate magic.

Ethereal

You’re always surrounded by a faint golden or silvery glow. It 
isn’t enough to light a dark place but it does make your true 
nature difficult to hide. Take +1 forward with any pious mortal, 
especially mortal elves, who sees it.

Divine Touch

When you lay your bare palms on someone who is sick or hurt, 
roll +WIS. On a 10+ heal 1D6 or cure a sickness. On a 7-9, 
heal 1D4.

Fair

You are not bound to a physical form the same way mortals are. 
You can freely display you age, gender, sex, hair, and eye color 
in any way you please. Mortals will invariably find you otherworldly 
and beautiful still.

Connections

Your regular dealings with the gods and goddesses of the realms 
have forged you some reliable connections. When you wish to 
petition a god or goddess for information, prepare an appropriate 
gift and roll +CHA. On a 10+ your gift was well received 
and the deity provides you with a little guidance. On a 7-9, the 
deity still offers some direction but you lose social standing with 
them and won’t be able to call in any favors with them without 
an extravagant gesture or tribute.

Aether Sense

You can sense magical signatures from a radius of about 25 feet. 
When you wish to discern what type of magic it is, roll +WIS. 
On a 10+ the GM will tell you the general nature of it. On a 
7-9, the GM will give you a detail or two about it.

Alfeimborn

You do not need to sleep.

Alignment

Choose your leaning 

Lawful

Control- through diplomacy- those too helpless to control 
themselves.

Neutral

Find a way to enforce order out of chaos.

Gear

Begin with this equipment

Your load is 7+ STR. 

You start with Adventuring Gear (5 uses, 1 weight) and 10 
coins.

Choose your weapon:

 Elven Bow (near, far, 1 weight) and quiver of Elfshot 
arrows (x5 ammo, +1 piercing, 1 weight)

 Curved Saber (close, +1 damage, 1 weight

Choose your armor:

 Finely Crafted Leather Armor (1 armor, 1 weight)

 Polished Shield (1 armor, 2 weight)

Bonds

Explore with others before starting or write your own

’s ways are trite but charming. I could teach 
them a lot.

It turns out 
is quite gifted in the arts. 

would benefit greatly from learning proper 
oration.

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 2-5, choose one of the following

Divine Visage

Some of the more rustic areas of Midgard still worship Alfir 
as true gods. When you enter a small, remote steading, roll 
+CHA. On a 10+ the villagers treat you as a living deity. 
They’ll honor you with sacrificial livestock, feasting, and singing 
as much as their resources allow. On a 7-9 you make an impression 
but the villagers are either too insular to trust or too intimidated 
to find this a joyous occasion.

Dealing Fate

When you consider strategy and tactics before battle, roll +WIS. 
On a 10+ your weapon deals +1 damage for the next combat 
encounter. On a 7-9 deal +1 damage on your first attack roll.

Óswane

You can speak telepathically into the mind of anyone you have a 
bond with inside a radius of about 10ft.

Celestial Armament

When you say a blessing over your arms and armor before 
battle, roll +WIS. On a 10+ gain +1 armor for the next combat 
encounter. On a 7-9 reduce the damage of the first successful 
attack against you by 1D4.

Crusade

Your presence on the battlefield greatly encourages morale in 
your allies. Anyone fighting with you against a common enemy 
takes +1 forward to attacks until you take damage.

Moldable Essence

Your form isn’t as rigid as a mortal’s. When you wish to alter 
your physical form, roll +WIS. On a 10+ gain 3 hold, on a 7-9 
gain 2. You may choose to activate effects in sequence or 
simultaneously. Spend hold, one for one, on the following:

 Light as a feather

 Stiff as a statue

 Heavy as a horse

 Small as a house cat

 Big as a bear

 Effects last longer than 1 minute but less than 5

Secret Siphon

When you draw in energy from living things around you like 
plants, animals, or people, replenish 1D6 health as long as your 
presence is secret. Sentient creatures do not take damage from 
this, but they may feel fatigued and may suffer the conse-
quences.

Justicar

When you suspect someone is lying to you, roll +WIS. On a 10+ 
you sense their overarching motivation and whether or not they 
are trying to deceive you. On a 7-9 you can tell if they are being 
generally honest or not, but cannot get their motivation, purpose, 
or other mitigating factors.

Advanced Moves:

When you take a level between 6-10, choose one of the following

Blind

When you release a blast of pure light, roll +WIS. On a 10+ you 
blind anyone caught by surprise for one minute. On a 7-9 you 
still catch your intended targets but you also blind yourself for a 
second.

Jötun Hunter

When you identify and pursue any Jötun, roll +WIS. On a 10+ 
gain +1 forward against the creature until it dies. On a 7-9 deal 
+2 damage on your first strike to it.

Wider Óswane

Replaces: Óswane

You can now speak telepathically into the mind of anyone you 
have a bond with, regardless of distance.

Miracle

When you perform a divine miracle to heal the sick or wounded 
they heal +2D8.

Song of Seasons

When you alter the natural world to benefit your passing, roll 
+CHA. On a 10+ hold 3, on a 7-9 hold 2. Spend hold, one for 
one, on the following:

 Snow drifts melt

 Mountain passes become usable 

 Plants bloom or die / migratory animals change course

 Blizzards cause snow to pile up, ships are iced into ports

 The song’s effects last for several days, giving secondary 
effects more foothold

 The song’s effects last for several weeks, causing havoc to 
crops, trade, and resource management.

Mindreader

When you wish to read the thoughts at the forefront of your 
target’s mind, concentrate and make direct eye contact with 
them. Then roll +WIS. On a 10+ you get a clear snapshot of 
what is occupying most of their active through. On a 7-9 the 
vision is very hazy and you’re only able to discern a few scant 
thoughts.

Semi-Eternal Mind

When you meet someone you’ve met before, you may take +1 forward 
against them as long as you have spent a long time apart.

Earthly Divine

When you first meet with someone who has already heard of you, 
roll +CHA. On a 10+, tell the GM two things they’ve heard 
about you. On a 7-9 tell the GM one thing and the GM will 
tell you one.


THE DVERGR

Then sought the gods their assembly seats,

The holy ones, and council held,

To find who should raise the race of dwarfs

Out of Brimir’s blood and the legs of Blain.

Völuspá, Prose Edda

 To most not of dwarvish descent, the Dvergar are 
little more than a mysterious legend- the ancestors of modern 
dwarves, still in their primordial forms from when they were 
created from the first god, Ymir. The physical form of a Dvergar 
only adds to their mystique. They appear to be living rock fused 
with dark gray flesh, usually with quite fascinating features like 
huge crystalline structures, veins of glittering ore, or glowing 
lines of magma. 

 Common dwarves, however, share some of their culture 
with their still living ancestors so the knowledge of their 
existence and ways are not entirely lost. To know of the Dvergar 
is one thing and, unfortunately, getting close enough to know 
the Dvergar first hand is quite difficult for non-dwarves, though 
it can even be quite a rare opportunity for some dwarves. The 
Dvergar are, for better or worse, a tightly insular people who do 
not usually enjoy dealing with other others. They have difficulty 
understanding overland mortals most of the time as the 
traditional Dvergar ideals of honor, pragmatism (especially in 
combat), and property ownership causes friction. 

 Misunderstandings with mortals are typically the result 
of a Dvergr not obliging the mortal sensibilities of face-to-face 
duels to settle matters and would easily stab someone in the back 
while they weren’t looking to end a confrontation. While 
humans, elves, and even mortal dwarves would balk at the idea 
of turning down an honor-duel, a typical Dvergr has little 
interest in risking their life for anything they feel is frivolous. To 
the primordial dwarves, this is an act of pragmatism and 
intelligence, not cowardice, though it is a hard gap to bridge 
when trying to mesh with overlanders. 

 The other issue that regularly comes up with mortals is 
the concept of property, to which the Dvergar have a famously 
radical concept. The Dvergar believe that anything forged or 
crafted by them never leaves their ownership, no matter how the 
item changed hands in the first place. When the Dvergar lent 
fantastic crafts and even Mjolnir to the gods, it was with the idea 
that these artifacts still belonged to the Dvergar and will 
someday be returned. One of the most common reasons these 
primordial dwarves find their way to Midgard is to try and 
recover items they believed should have been returned to them. 
Which, as you can imagine, can make for some very heated 
arguments, especially when considering the Dvergar live until 
killed and mortals grow and die in the blink of an eye.

 Dvergar, if you can gain their trust, make excellent scouts 
as they can read the land like an open book, find valuable ore 
with ease, and locate important resources without breaking a 
sweat. They are famously the most skilled craftspeople in all 
the nine realms, and even the high gods rely on them for their 
mighty weapons and powerful relics. Dvergar make excellent 
warriors and mercenaries if a satisfactory contract of service can 
be reached. They are quite handy with a huge variety of martial 
weapons and often create their own special arms, crafted with 
skill enough for even the gods. Their thick hides make them 
difficult to fell and their determination to rise and fight again is 
indomitable. While nearly blind in direct sunlight, the Dvergar 
are unstoppable underground or in dark, rocky places- where 
they are nearly invisible and can carve paths and tunnels with all 
the ease of molding wet sand.

Choose a Name

Neth, Ivald, Mótsognir, Kleo, Durinn, Thubrann, Nýi, Maeve, 
Niði, Halva, Norðri, Hamme, Suðri, Runa, Austri, Bo, Vestri, 
Era, Alþjófr, Laifa, Suna, Náinn, Aras, Nipingr, Bera, Dáinn, 
Drifa, Án, Finna, Anarr, Halladora, Veigr, Vindalfr, Lithr, Vith, 
Nýráðr, Reginn, Ráðsviðr, Silkisif, Erikr, Thyrth, Thorbjorn, 
Aslaug

Choose a Look

Body: Craggy, ore veins, crystal formations, smooth

Eyes: Pure white, solid black, gem-like

Hair: Wiry, thick braids or ringlets, mossy

Clothes: Cap with wide brim, helm with visor, thick 
smithy’s apron and gloves.

Vitals

Max HP is 6+CON

Base Damage is 1D8

Background

Choose your heritage 

Asher Clan

The natural ash in your body absorbs and neutralizes poisons.

Irönborn Clan

Your sharp mind is too strong to be bent to the whims of fleeting 
Midgardians. Illusions have no effect on you when created 
by a mortal.

Vatnsberi Clan

Water flows through your body like blood and you cannot 
succumb to magical paralysis.

Skýr Clan

Your knowledge of the arcane keeps magical mind control 
or manipulation from taking hold in you.

Starting Moves

Start with these moves

Adapted Vision

After ages of living in the dark, your people’s eyes can no longer
stand the intensity of the sun. In natural sunlight, you are 
severely hindered by the painful glare. On the other hand, you 
can see in total darkness just fine, magical or otherwise.

Born of Stone

Your body is made of earth, rock, and lines of jagged crystal. 
You have natural +2 armor.

Metallurgy

With a few resources, you can make minor repairs to arms and 
armor with a few hours of uninterrupted concentration. These 
skills also cover the creation of small items like simple ornaments, 
jewelry, fixtures, nails, horseshoes, etc...

Stone Flesh

Magic has difficulty permeating your stone hide. Take +1 ongoing 
against any spellcasters targeting you with magic.

Prospect

When you spend time surveying your natural surroundings and soil 
composition, roll +WIS. On a 10+ choose 2, on a 7-9 choose 1. 
On a miss, you give an incorrect assessment.

 The general health of the soil; whether it is fertile or 
barren, whether it has been packed down or dug up 
recently, etc.

 What living creatures make their home here.

 What natural resources are in the area

 What kind of ore is near

Sentinel

You do not need to eat or sleep. If a move tells you to mark and 
consume a ration, ignore it.

Alignment

Choose your leaning 

Lawful

Pursue an opportunity to broaden your knowledge for the 
benefit of your people.

Neutral

Reclaim stolen artifacts for your people.

Gear

Begin with this equipment

Your load is 11+ STR. 

You start with Dungeon Rations (5 uses, 1 weight) and a pouch 
of gold ore (about 20 coins’ worth)

Choose your weapon:

 Maul (close, +1 damage, 2 weight)

 Pickaxe (close, Piercing, 1 weight)

Choose your armor:

 Fine Chain Shirt (1 armor, 1 weight)

 Iron Breastplate (2 armor, 2 weight)

Bonds

Explore with others before starting or write your own

 has promised me something of value for my 
assistance.
 
and I have learned to appreciate each other 
over time and I regard them closely.

’s tactic of attacking the enemy head on is cute 
but they’ll live longer if they learn some discretion.

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 2-5, choose one of the following

Forge of the Gods

Take +1 to Spout Lore roles concerning the divine.

Emissary

Contact with other clans has offered the opportunity to learn. 
Choose another background move.

Power in Words

Dvergr treat their promises with absolute solemnity. Take +1 
forward when you’re acting to satisfy a debt or promise you 
made with someone you have a bond with.

Smithy

You can now create basic arms and armor. The GM will help 
you determine what stat bonuses, if any, apply to your creations. 
You can also make more substantial repairs to arms and armor. 
Broken or shattered swords, deformed spears, punctured armor, 
etc, are as good as new in your skilled hands- so long as you have 
raw materials, safety, and time in which to work.

Hoard

Dvergar have deep feelings of possession for Dvergr-made items 
that find their way into the hands of mortals. Take +1 against 
anyone who tries to prevent you from taking a rightful prize.

Darkling

When you stay still and quiet in a rocky setting, you cannot be 
seen by nonmagical means.

Fire-Forged

You feel no pain from fires and magical fire causes 1D4 less 
damage on attacks.

Acid Touch

When you secrete acidic liquid from your fingertips, roll +STR. 
On a 10+ the acid is potent enough to cause 1D4 damage to 
nonmagical living entities and significant damage to metal, 
wood, and stone.

Direction Sense

As long as you can see unimpeded by sunlight, you never lose 
your way.

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 6-10, choose one of the following

Fracture Point

When you hit their most obvious weakpoint with all of your 
might, roll +WIS. On a 10+ you break through their defenses 
in a way others can take advantage of. On a 7-9 deal damage 
with the Piercing tag. On a miss, take -1 against the target until 
the end of the encounter.

Compel Truth

Dvergr hate lies more than almost anything else. When you 
verbally challenge someone’s truthfulness in front of witnesses, 
roll +WIS. On a 10+, they are compelled to speak the truth. 
On a 7-9 they cannot lie but are not obligated to speak. No 
matter the result, the spell wears off after a few minutes or when 
the target leaves your immediate presence.

Dig

Your life underground has made you adept at creating 
sturdy tunnels in a fraction of the time it would take overlanders. 
You can dig a four foot wide tunnel under a fortress wall in 
a matter of hours, create small underground alcoves for shelter 
in a few minutes, etc.

Master Smith

Replaces: Smithy

In addition to making comprehensive repairs to arms and armor, 
you can now work on magical items. With research, materials, 
and time, plus access to a forge, you can fuse broken items back 
together again or recharge their innate spells.

Volcanic Bomb

When you heat up your core and eject a molten hot blob of liquid 
rock at an enemy, roll weapon damage against your target and 
deal half of that result as splash damage to any other targets 
within ten feet of the primary at a cost of 1D6 damage to yourself.


Appraising Eye

When dealing with mortal merchants in any matters concerning 
fine metals or utilitarian alloys, roll +WIS. On a 10+ the 
bargain is beneficial to you and decidedly less for the merchant. 
On a 7-9 your opposition is much less concerned about offending 
you but ultimately cedes to a reasonably fair trade weighted 
a little in your favor.


THE JOTUNNBORN

All the witches

Spring from Witolf

All the warlocks

Are of Willharm

And the spell-slingers

spring from Swarthead;

All the ogres

of Ymir come 

Völuspá, Prose Edda

 Of all the peoples in the mortal plane, none are quite as 
misunderstood as the Jötunnborn. They are the product of a 
Jötnar marriage to one of the other races (even gods, sometimes) 
and usually have physical indicators of their ice-giant blood, 
which can put something of a target on their back in some situations.

 Jötunnborn are quite varied in what they pick up from 
their combined heritage. Some are fully committed to living as 
Jötnar and preserving the wild chaos of the world, some are 
pious and serve the gods, some are even elevated to god-dom 
and asked to live with and support their divine spouses. 
Jötunnborn, as a whole, do not take persecution lying 
down, however. There are common stories of Jötunnborn going 
to immense lengths to exact vengeance for an insult against 
their blood, even as they are outcasted from most Midgardian 
settlements. Jötunnborn are powerhouses in combat, retaining 
their ice-giant strength and constitution. With the blood of 
Ymir coursing through them, they can still access a lot of their 
ancestral power. Finding gateways between realms, for instance, 
is child’s play to the Jötunnborn, as is dampening unfriendly 
arcane energy.

Choose a Name

Offa, Rerir, Sörli, Hathir, Lothor, Brithard, Anaan, Arne, 
Finn, Sten, Arvid, Embla, Endr, Kory, Kare, Yrsa, Revna, Eira, 
Beorhtric, Hiordus, Magnus, Ninga, Kveld, Nefr, Gagnráðr, 
Ahhoth, Hunding, Yasante, Hæmingr, Aminatu, Högne, 
Tinthu, Hothbrodd, Helema, Sima

Choose a Look

Body: Bluish flesh, natural markings, abnormally tall or heavy.

Eyes: Blood red, predatory, feral, crystalline

Hair: Shaved sides, top knot, wild tangles

Clothes: Warrior’s garb, little coverage, ragged furs

Vitals

Max HP is 8+CON

Base Damage is 1D10

Background

Choose your heritage 

Iron Forest

Whenever you wish to interact with wild, nonmagical animals, 
they are inclined to trust you until you prove to be a threat.

My Big Fat Jötnar Wedding

Despite the sometimes violent hatred between both groups, the 
rampant intermarrying of gods and Jötnar left a ripe opportunity 
for your clan to exploit. You are betrothed to a lesser Aesir 
deity. Describe them and what this union can offer you.

Full-Blooded Monster

You were born of Ymir’s sweat and you refuse to let the Aesir 
make you docile. You have permanent, monstrous features like 
claws, enormous fangs, extra heads, towering height that exceeds 
8 feet, etc.

Starting Moves

Start with these moves

Strength of Gods

No matter what your current form looks like, the strength of 
giants courses through you. Add +1 to your STR modifier.

Grudge

When you swear vengeance upon someone who’s wronged you 
because of your heritage, write a new bond for it. Take +1 
forward against them until the bond resolves, one way or 
another.

Bad Blood

Any time you enter a new settlement- or one that does not take 
kindly to strange frost giants- perform the basic move 

Outstanding Warrants.

Sacred Vengeance

When you fell an enemy you have a Grudge-bond with and eat 
them, you consume your enemy’s mind and knowledge- not just 
their blood and bone. In addition to any useful information 
you may glean (the GM will tell you), you also gain a one-time-
use skill or power from your meal. The GM will create a special 
move for you.

Tracking

When you catch the scent of someone and have a belonging of 
theirs, roll +INT. On a 10+ pick 3, on a 7-9 pick two:

 The trail is fresh

 The trail is discernible even in crowded places

 You can pick up traces of emotive pheromone in the 
scent, telling you if the target was scared, angry, etc…

 You can pick up a secondary scent from the target, 

 for instance fresh blood from a wound or the smell of 
horses

 You can discern whether or not magical energy 

 interacted with your target at some point along the 
trail.

 You can tell whether the trail exits the current plane but 
you will have trouble following it across realms.

Unloved

Unless you’re among Jötnar or other persecuted communities, 
you can use your very presence as leverage during Parley.

Thick Skin

Gain +1 armor.

Alignment

Choose your leaning 

Good

Teach someone about a harsh reality to help them survive.

Neutral

Oppose the gods’ oppressive control over you.

Evil

Shake someone’s faith in the gods by whatever means necessary.

Gear

Begin with this equipment

Your load is 10+ STR 

You start with Dungeon Rations (5 uses, 1 weight) and a 
concealed, improvised shiv (hand, 1 weight)

Choose your weapon:

 Battleaxe (close, 1 weight)

 Iron Sword (close, +1 damage, 1 weight)

Choose your armor:

 Old Leathers (1 armor, 1 weight)

 Mismatched Chainmail (1 armor, 2 weight)

Bonds

Explore with others before starting or write your own
 
must get stronger if they are going to survive. 
is weak because they have never known true 
hardship.
 
is all too eager to bend in subservience.

I must watch my back around 

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 2-5, choose one of the following

Astral Traveler

You might not be welcome on the Bifrost but with some 
planning and scouting, you can always find an alternate way to 
any of the Nine Realms.

Questionably Merciful

When you fight with a rival or enemy but refrain from finishing 
them off, take +1 forward against them.

Pack Mentality

When someone defers to your advice or orders, they get +1 
forward when they follow your word, reinforcing your ‘alpha 
wolf’ tendencies.

Ancient Knowledge

Jötnar barely age and the passage of time has imparted vast 
knowledge to you. Whenever you Discern Realities, you can use 
your INT instead of WIS.

Sturdy

Ignore the Clumsy tag on armor.

Quick Instincts

When you trust your gut and rely on your instincts to outpace 
your enemies, take +1 to Defy Danger INT rolls.

Dominant

When you inflict damage on a target in plain view of those weaker
than you, take +1 on your next Hack & Slash roll.

Form Unbound

You cannot hide your Jötnar heritage but you can change your 
features and sex at will to mimic the appearance of other 
humanoids.

First Blood

When you are the first to deal damage in a an encounter, deal an 
extra 1D4 damage.

Magic & Mystery

When you Spout Lore about gods, realms, or other magical and 
historical lore, take +1.

Calculated

When you confront a foe with a predetermined battle plan, add 
your INT modifier to the damage you deal on each strike so 
long as things are going exactly according to your plan.

Advanced Moves

When you take a level between 6-10, choose one of the following

Alfar Hunter

When you identify and pursue any Alfir, roll +WIS. On a 10+ 
gain +1 forward against the creature until it dies. On a 7-9 deal 
+2 damage on your first strike to it.

Bloodthirsty

Requires: First Blood

You can now add the Forceful or Messy tag to your first strike.

Pack Hunting

Requires: Calculated

If they also follow your predetermined battle plan, your allies 
may now add their INT modifiers to their damage rolls.

Magebane

When you target an ongoing spell that is currently active, roll 
+INT. On a 10+ the spell is dispelled or canceled, on a 7-9 you 
weaken its effects.

Hone

When in combat, all 10+ rolls have an unexpected benefit. The 
GM will describe it.

Astral Tracking

Requires: Astral Traveler

You can now track targets across different planes and realms as 
one of your Astral Tracking parameters.
