Races: Elves

The elfin-beam shall bear a daughter,
Ere Fenrir drags her forth;
That maid shall go, where the great gods die,
To ride her mother’s road.

Gylfaginning, Prose Edda

Origins

 The mortal elves of Stromgard are the distant descendants 
of Vanir gods that have lost their divine blood over many 
millennia. Today, there are three distinct groups of elf-folk. To 
describe them, however, a brief explanation of Vanir and Aesir is 
in order. For a more in-depth summation, check out the chapter 
on Gods. The short version, however, goes like this: the Aesir 
are the high gods, the most powerful and influential of all, who 
answer to Odin, chief among them and who dwell in the highest 
plane of existence, Asgard. The Vanir are gods as well, but 
lesser in both power and influence. Typically they serve and 
defer to the Aesir in order to promote peace, governance, and 
civility among the immortals. They live in a lower realm, 
Vanaheim. Eventually, conflict arose between the Vanir and the 
Aesir, and after a few bloody ages of war and betrayal, the Vanir 
gave in and agreed to submit to Aesir rule to prevent more 
bloodshed. The immortal elves, at this point, were one people 
who fought hard for the Vanir. At this juncture, they could not 
come to an agreement on what course of action to take and were 
divided. 

Half of them decided to submit to Aesir rule and strive to 
bring order to the rest of the Nine Realms and the other half was 
deeply hurt by the Aesir aggression; while they surrendered 
without undue bloodshed, they retreated to become a rigidly 
insular society that minimized interaction with the other groups. 
These two groups used to live on one single plane of existence 
but the realm was split by powerful magic into two: Alfheim, 
home of the Alfir who believe strongly in justice and order, and 
Svartalfheim, the lower realm of the Nithfir. Colloquially, the 
Alfir are known as light elves and the Nithfir as moon elves. 
While the other races simply assume that these descriptors refer 
to physical appearance, the mortal elves of Stromgard are taught 
that the Alfir are associated with light because they worship 
the Vanir god Freyr. The Nithfir do not worship at all as far as 
anyone else can tell but they are still part of the elven people as 
a whole and their nickname is a reflection of the relationship 
between light and dark, sun and moon. 

Mortal Elves

 Mortal elves are the descendants of these two divine 
peoples. Over the ages, there were some Alfir who descended to 
Midgard and remained, eventually forming a small but growing 
population that- over thousands of years- lost their connection 
with the divine and gained mortality. In the best of circumstances, 
they now live to be between seven and eight hundred 
years old, and reach maturity at about eighty.

 In Stromgard, elves are divided into clans based on region 
and tend to live in intricate villages built directly into whatever 
natural feature dominates the area. To the north, there are 
several elf villages carved directly into the sides of mountains, 
with the dwelling walls rising in one piece out of the living 
stone, to the south, huts and long-houses are built directly into 
towering treetops. Elven construction isn’t as intricate as 
dwarven or gnomish but it is generally a marvel to see first hand.

 Physically speaking, elves look very similar to humans. 
They tend to run a little slighter in frame and have a wider 
spectrum of flesh and hair tones. Depending on the region and 
the individual elf’s background, skin pigmentation can range 
from extremely pale, almost pearlescent blues and greens all the 
way to dark coppers, umbers, and ochres. Generally speaking, 
elves tend to be more inclined towards non-combat pursuits 
but their slighter build does not affect their ability to perform as 
warriors, sailors, berserkers, and hunters that are prized by any 
lucky enough to have them.

 After humans, mortal elves are Stromgard’s largest 
populace and their presence in every corner of the realm is proof 
of their strength of numbers. As a people, elves are typically 
known for their general amiability and the importance they 
place on maintaining good relationships with the other denizens 
of Stromgard. To outsiders, elven culture can be a minefield of 
minor offenses and faux pas but elves are usually quite slow to 
anger and usually give bumbling but well-meaning foreigners 
the benefit of the doubt. The instant they feel they are being 
intentionally disrespected, however, elves can quickly turn icy or 
even violent in some cases.

 Elves and humans deal with each other quite often via 
trading, intermarrying, conquest, and generally just living in 
close proximity to each other. Offhandedly, interracial marriages 
between elves and humans are usually endorsed by elvish parents 
and elvish culture typically favors the new relationship living 
within elven settlements. They take these bondings very 
seriously and will go to great lengths to make sure non-elven 
spouses are made comfortable and feel welcomed.

 With dwarves, elves share a unique relationship. Both 
cultures highly value the arts but their artistic and aesthetic 
philosophies are just about always at odds with each other. Elves 
and dwarves are commonly friendly-ish rivals, though there have 
been innumerable instances of these turning bitter and cold after 
one too many heated arguments. Elves generally disengage from 
frustrating discussions before losing their tempers, which in their 
culture is a sign of maturity and level-headedness... and usually 
considered an indicator of correctness. Disengaging a heated 
dwarf, however, is not a simple task.

 Elves get along quite easily with gnomes and halflings. 
With Jötnar, however, elves tend to show open hostility. This is 
all deeply rooted in the Aesir/Vanir relationship and the 
prominent belief that the Jötnar wish to overthrow the gods and 
plunge the world into chaos. A typical elf, however, could be 
convinced that a Jötnar or Jötunnborn was an upstanding person 
worthy of respect but they will have to earn that with an 
exemplary reputation. Elves have an honor sensibility very 
similar to humans in that they value forthrightness and 
honorable engagement in combat, though their justice system is, 
for the most part, mostly removed from honor duels and more 
rooted in community tribunals- typically with the goal of 
proactive and focused solutions over retribution. Unless the 
crimes go against the gods, involve necromancy, or poaching- to 
which they react quite swiftly and angrily. Elves can almost 
always be convinced to at least hear the plight of the accused 
before passing judgment, even in these more volatile circumstances, 
though forgiveness for these serious crimes is rare.

 Because of their longevity, elves do not organize their 
communities into small units based on familial relations. 
Instead, they view themselves as individuals that belong to (and 
have obligation to support) the community at large. Elf children 
are primarily cared for by one or both of their biological parents 
but it is commonplace for neighbors or relatives to get involved 
as well. In elvish culture, it is considered to be beneficial for 
children to spend time with many adults in order to better teach 
them diplomacy skills and respecting differences of opinion. 
This is also heavily influenced by the fact that, because of their 
long lives, elves experience very little pressure to have children. 

 Elven society is noted for being quite egalitarian in terms 
of gender and class equality. Those unfamiliar with elven 
society will sometimes have trouble distinguishing between 
genders at a glance and can sometimes find encounters to be 
confusing. This mostly comes from the elven interpretation of 
masculine and feminine. To elves, those words don’t describe 
clothing, preference of company, personal ornaments, mannerisms, 
work, or obligations and elves are often caught off guard 
by human or dwarven notions of binary gender presentation and 
the confusion between describing bodies and describing people. 

 Religion is relatively simple in elvish society- they worship 
the personified spirits of the natural world surrounding them, 
believing that every living thing is part of a great cosmic tide 
that ebbs and flows constantly. They believe that the natural 
order of things must be preserved and their surroundings must 
be mindfully cultivated and resources must be managed with 
care. To an elf, the cycle of life and death is sacred and to defile 
it is to commit a steep crime against the sanctity of life. 
Mortal elves typically look to the Alfir as the pinnacle of all they 
can hope to achieve, idolizing their divine blood and their 
service to the higher gods. As far as universally known deities 
are concerned, they worship Freyr primarily, as he is a champion 
of order and light. Mortal elves still hold the Nithfir in high 
respect, though it is considered somewhat taboo to speak about 
them in public or in the presence of outsiders, for fear it will 
drive them away forever.

Alfir and Nithfir

 Alfir and Nithfir are able to live indefinitely, dying only 
on the edge of a weapon or by certain magical ailments. Beyond 
this and their shared history, nearly nothing is known about 
the Nithfir in this day and age. Alfir, uncommon as they are 
on the mortal plane, are much more open about their ways and 
society and are usually quite happy to speak about it at length. 
Rare is the mortal that lays eyes on the cities of Alfheim but if 
Stromgard-bound Alfir are to be believed, it is a sprawling 
construction of crystal and glass, reaching up into the rose 
colored sky and stretching as far as the eye can see in every 
direction, dotted with small forests of trees and blanketed in 
vines. On Stromgard, Alfir do not have a standing home or 
village they congregate in. Their mortal descendants are more 
than happy to offer them shelter, however, so they rarely have 
issue finding what they need.

 Physically, both groups of divine elves are quite 
similar to their mortal descendants. They tend to be larger of 
frame- both taller and broader- but the spectrum of their hair 
and skin tones is larger. Flesh ranges in color from silvery white 
and lightly tinted pearlescent tones to striking shades of violet 
and sky blue. Naturally occurring hair colors in Alfir tend to 
range between silver and platinum to deep, ruddy golds while 
Nithfir are said to have hair like liquid onyx. In Alfir society, 
however, fashion is an enjoyable pastime and method of self 
expression so magically altered skin, hair, and eye colors are 
quite common.

 Since communication with the Moon Elves has all but 
dried up, Alfir have turned their their often-relentless focus on 
better civilizing the mortal world below. They believe strongly 
in the need to organize a comprehensive governmental system 
to ensure that justice is served appropriately and that society is 
productive, healthy, and content. With very few exceptions, Alfir 
believe ardently that all crimes should be heard by a jury before 
passing judgment and they believe that punishments for crimes 
should prioritize rehabilitation and reintroduction to society 
wherever possible. Alfir prize systemic support so much that 
they have, on many occasions, submitted perpetrators to 
punishment at the hands of an unjust or poorly thought-out law 
with the intent to work the kinks out of legislation in process 
or even after, rather than clear charges in extenuating circumstances. 
Because of this outlook, they have earned the reputation 
as being somewhat-to-extremely harsh and inflexible about 
deferring to the law in every situation. Naturally, this prioritization 
of law and order makes them quite difficult for people of 
more… gray or self-interested moral backgrounds to get along 
with. Nowhere is this more evident than with their relationship 
to Jötnar.

 Alfir typically believe that all Jötnar are uncivilized 
brutes that are driven to upend the world and murder the gods. 
Light Elves that have spent a great deal of time in the mortal 
realm are more aware of the reality- that Jötnar are very 
individualized and prize freedom, not that they necessarily 
cannot peacefully coexist in a world with governance. Still, their 
feuding and latent mistrust has fueled countless generations of 
immediate dislike, disdain, and in many cases, outright violence.

 By and large, the Alfir maintain good relationships with 
most of the other groups of Stromgard. Their strict adherence to 
black and white concepts of justice can make them come across 
as severe or extreme and many also find them a little naive for 
a race of beings that usually live for untold ages. Their disconnection 
from mortality and the ways of mundane people can be 
confusing and stressful for Alfir who have not had the opportunity 
to learn about Midgard first hand. Typically though, they 
are welcomed in all settlements and usually learn local customs 
relatively quickly (for an immortal).

 Alfir have a strange societal breakdown that’s not seen in 
any other race. To celebrate the very rare birth of an Alfar child, 
the Light Elves call huge swaths of stars to streak across the sky 
so that they rain down like silver fire in a huge shower. Alfir 
children reach physical maturity at about one hundred and fifty 
years old and during this time they live in close proximity to 
their biological parent(s) or relatives, depending on a number of 
factors, not the least of which is an adult Alfir’s ability to remain 
interested in their child (a lamentable side effect of immortality, 
apparently). Once they reach physical maturity, they are 
considered a member of Alfheim as a whole, rather than the 
smaller family unit. It is also common for Alfar to forget their 
biological parents after a few thousand years.. As a people, they 
are so community-minded that they view those individualized 
relationships unimportant unless there is more to the connection 
than simply blood.

 As with most beings of divinity, Alfir don’t understand 
gender particularly well. At a societal level, bearing children is 
unimportant and mostly uninteresting so the need to be able to 
tell at a glance who can carry a child simply doesn’t apply. Alfir 
make assumptions based on external factors like masculine or 
feminine fashion trends, or by simply asking if they’re not sure- 
which can be a little awkward for non-Alfir not expecting to be 
asked such quite so bluntly. They make very little stereotypes 
based on gender, finding it a fascinating but ultimately 
unimportant concept that mortals have to worry about.

 The god Freyr is the most important figure in Alfir 
spirituality. Not only do they worship him as the foremost 
authority on justice, compassionate governance, and light but 
they also commune directly with him on certain occasions, 
giving their religious inclinations a hard grounding in concrete 
communication.

Races: Dwarves

They took his skull also, and made of it the heaven, and set it up 
over the earth with four corners; and under each corner they set a 
dwarf: the names of these are East, West, North, and South.

Gylfagin, Prose Edda

Origins

 Dwarves are fastidious about preserving and venerating 
their own history, which makes studying them a much more 
straightforward task than it is with elvish affairs. There are two 
kinds of dwarves: Gundkin, modern dwarves that are mortal, 
simply called “dwarves” by most, and Dvergr, the primordial 
“parent” race who still exist today and who still retain their 
primal forms and immortality. When the world was not yet 
created as it exists today, a being now known as Ymir lived. 
Ymir was titanically huge and is often called the first Jötun, for it 
is from him the race of ice giants sprang. Odin and his 
siblings slew it after a time and made the worlds out of the 
carcass for all the races to live on. The first dwarves, the Dvergr, 
were born directly of Ymir’s corpse and have been a fully formed 
race- like the Jötnar- ever since. In dwarven canon, the first 
dwarves were said to be shaped of flesh and filled with Ymir’s 
blood. A rude version of the telling describes the dwarven 
people emerging from the corpse as maggots. This version is- 
obviously- quite angrily rebuked in dwarven society and they 
have fought against its existence so long that even the word 
maggot is often taken as a slur in dwarven areas.

After the planes of the cosmic tree were created and 
distributed, the dwarven people were given Myrkheim to be 
their home. It is a realm of stone castles and a magnificent cairn 
that marks the entrance to a sprawling hall housing famous and 
notable dwarves who have passed on, along with vast murals 
that record much of dwarven knowledge. Here, both groups of 
dwarves live together where they maintain most of the extra-
planar travelways for the gods, including the Bifrost. Myrkheim 
is also home to the vast majority of Dvergr as they have more 
interest in forging for the Aesir than they do in the material 
riches and profitability of Midgard. Conversely, most Gundkin 
live in Midgard in this age, though their population fluctuates 
and both groups are capable of living together quite 
harmoniously.

Mortal Dwarves: Gundkin

 Mortal dwarves live to be between five and seven hundred 
years old in the best case scenarios, though a realistic mortality 
rate for them is lower. They pursue war often, eager for spoils 
and rare resources, plus working conditions in dwarven mines 
can be quite dangerous. Because their home plane of Myrkheim 
is a shadowy realm under a violet sky, most dwarves prefer to 
construct settlements in mountain ranges or sheltered foothills, 
digging straight into the earth and hollowing out entire 
mountains, centuries at a time.

 While plenty of baseless rumors will tell you that dwarven 
cities are impossible to find with the untrained eyes, they’re 
definitely not. Most established settlements have plenty of 
guards and watches to announce your presence, and due to a 
vast array of legal formalities, someone is usually sent out to 
retrieve visitors. Because dwarven economy is heavily tied 
around the markets of the other cultures, they are quite well 
versed in the customs of outsiders. They can sometimes come 
off a little cold or brusque with foreigners, as they treat hospitality 
like a business transaction. Typically, dwarves are only fully at 
ease in social environments that consist of other dwarves.

 Not every dwarven settlement is dug out from underground. 
The dwarves who live north near the jagged banks of 
the Black Band built their city in the walls of a deep treacherous 
ravine that cuts straight into the ground. Rumor has it that 
some dwarves have discovered how to construct cities under the 
shallows just off the coast, though whether or not this is 
actually true remains to be seen. Dwarven settlements are 
marked with the some of the best technology in Stromgard. 
Many mountain cities enjoy a kind of widespread heating during 
the worst of the winter months with clever chambers running 
through walls and walkways to distribute magically regulated 
heat. Other comforts include nearly impenetrable defenses, high 
quality iron weapons, ready access to glass and fine metals, and 
even parchment.

 Dwarves are famously easy to spot at a distance, standing 
taller than halflings at about four to almost five feet tall and are 
quite stocky. Most are muscular from their work of mining and 
smithing, so they tend to be on the wideset side. They make 
stout warriors of all types and are also well known for being 
hardy clerics and even sailors if they can overcome their innate 
distrust of the ocean- dwarves firmly believe it is chock full of 
leviathan horrors (and they’re not entirely incorrect). Dwarves 
have ruddy complexions and tend to have freckles or beauty 
marks with skin tones ranging from fair to a dark coppery color. 
Dwarven hair comes mostly in all the colors of fire and gold, and 
rarely black.

 Dwarves, as it is commonly said, get along cordially with 
all the other races of Stromgard- even Jötnar. They cannot, 
however, seem to get along with each other on a long-term basis. 
This is mostly due to the cutthroat nature of dwarven society, 
which is bent entirely around the ore market. Dwarves live and 
die by ore veins and other resource claims- their legal system 
allocates the ownership of an entire vein to whomever owns the 
land it was found on and competition is fierce and often involves 
underhanded things like subterfuge, sabotage, and violence. 
Families fight and undermine each other constantly and 
anyone with a stake in a lucrative mine had best ensure they’ve 
got formidable defenses. Everything in the typical dwarven social 
environment is motivated and powered by some step of the 
commercial process, from mining and refinement, to production 
and manufacturing, to buyer negotiations and contracts.

 Dwarves highly value shrewd business sense and 
discretion. Individuals who are able to secure their assets 
without messy, direct violence are praised as cunning and intelligent 
where as bold moves or open hostility invites scorn at worst 
and pity at best. Dwarven sensibilities on honor stem mostly 
from their concept of a ‘public face’ and a ‘private face’. In 
essence, this means that dwarves do not abide 
by open betrayal or unprovoked violence at a 
surface level but will practically necessitate that 
these things happen with subtlety and cunning 
behind closed doors. Dwarves who can pull 
off asset takeovers or destabilize their rivals 
without giving away their involvement and 
maintaining an alibi are almost universally 
admired for their ‘ambition’ and ‘drive’.

Like all aspects of modern dwarven culture, family 
organization directly benefits the iron industry and helps 
maintain their control of it. Typically, dwarven families divide 
into ‘houses’ with the nuclear family and extended relatives all 
living together. The oldest female dwarf of the family typically 
assumes the role of the matriarch. She makes financial decisions 
for the assets her estate owns and oversees all business dealings. 
Matriarchs are responsible for the longevity and health of their 
house, tasked with arranging beneficial marriages for her 
children and grandchildren, outmaneuvering opponents, and 
avoiding assassins. The matriarch also has the power to place 
family members in different areas of business operations. Smart 
choices that match skill to a need reap huge benefits while small 
oversights at any juncture can have catastrophic results, leading 
most matriarchs to be calculating, iron-willed, and very 
intimidating.

 The matriarch primarily manages the house’s business 
and the rest of the family is tasked with completing the labor in 
some capacity. In smaller, poorer houses, many do not have the 
huge extended families or standing to maintain ore vein ownership 
and are usually hired on to perform labor for other families. 
While job safety can vary from vein to vein and matriarch to 
matriarch, the pay is typically stable and enough to make ends 
meet, at least until that particular vein runs out. If not assigned 
to the mines, other family members work the smelters and 
forges, liaison with outsiders for supply contracts, or sell to 
whatever buyers they can. Wealthier homes have legions of 
miners in their employ, leaving core family members to be 
divided up in overseeing and managing the supply line.

 Unlike elves and Jötnar, gender plays a stronger role in 
dwarven society. While region is a factor in the rigidity of 
preconceptions, most dwarves believe that while anyone may 
work the mines or refinement processes, the counting of 
money or other assets is women’s work. It is believed that math 
is a type of witchcraft and that for a male to do it would invite 
demonic attention. Conversely, religious outreach and priesthood 
are considered men’s work most of the time, with some 
limited positions in more progressive temples for women. 
However, as dwarven superstition believes women have a natural 
kind of magical essence to them that could attract malevolent 
presence if left to tend temples, it is usually preferable to find 
missonary work for women as war clerics and Paladins.

 The dwarves worship Odin and venerate their ancestors, 
believing that every step their people took led to the reality of 
the present. It is also common for dwarves to seek the wisdom 
of their ancestors in the form of prayer or the loud singing of 
hymns. When a dwarf of special prominence dies, efforts are 
made to immortalize their accumulated knowledge in books or 
sculpture in a public area of the city.

Dvergar

 Colloquially known as the ‘parent’ race of modern 
dwarves, Dvergar are what’s left of the original dwarves that 
were formed of Ymir’s flesh and blood. Like the immortal elves, 
Dvergar only die on the edge of a blade or by some other 
special means; they don’t age. They live exclusively underground 
as the bright sun of Midgard is hard on their adaptive dark-
vision. They can function in directly sunlight but rarely do so, 
finding it irritating and sometimes painful. Typically, Dvergar 
live near mortal dwarves when they venture out of Myrkheim 
but they tend to burrow to extreme depths to build more 
permanent living situations. While the mortal dwarves and 
Dvergar don’t always live together, much of their culture is 
shared and both groups pleasantly regard the other when they do 
meet.

 Physically, Dvergar are extremely easy to tell at a glance- 
they look like moving rock, standing about five feet tall and 
weighing nearly five hundred pounds. Their silhouette is broken 
up by large juts of crystal formations, growing straight out of 
their body. Sometimes these formations are also accompanied 
by lines of glittering ore or some other mineral, weaving along 
the Dvergr’s body. Up close, Dvergar have rough, human-like 
skin where there isn’t stone, which comes in a rainbow of 
colors, typically darker shades of whatever crystalline structures 
are found in the rocky parts of their body. The patterns, colors, 
and features of a Dvergr’s body are said to be unique, like a 
fingerprint.

 Because of their insular nature, most mortals of 
Stromgard never live to see a Dvergr. They don’t have much of 
a longstanding relationship with any of the mortal races, due 
mostly to a lack of interaction. Friction does tend to be an issue 
with Dvergr interactions for some others, however, as these 
ancient dwarves have unique views on possession and ownership. 
To the Dvergar, any artifact made by them belongs to them, no 
matter how the item traveled from one hand to the next. Sometimes, 
Dvergar come to the surface to hunt down artifacts or 
items they expected returned to them, much to the confusion 
and irritation of the person now in possession of it. Dvergar 
also have a somewhat controversial approach to honor. They are 
pragmatic and utilitarian, prioritizing their survival and 
victory over honor and valor. Stabbing someone in the back 
when they’re not expecting it is a totally fair move in the mind 
of a Dvergr and this causes some issue with other races for 
obvious reasons.

 Dvergar don’t have tight knit family groups either, 
believing that they are all part of the same community. Most 
attribute this to the fact that they simply live so long that the 
need for close family units is simply a non-issue for them- it is 
easier for them to function as a larger group. Dvergar also have 
no physical maturation period. Their birth is not a biological 
thing but a thing of some arcane art that’s tightly guarded. It is 
also nearly impossible for outsiders to discern Dvergar gender 
at a glance, though it seems as though they are able to tell each 
other apart with ease. 

 The Dvergar, like the Gundkin, worship Odin. They are 
often commissioned by him for weapons and mighty 
armaments. It was the Dvergar who made his spear, Thor’s 
hammer, the chain that binds Fenrir, and the framework for 
Freyr’s ship. At the beginning of the world, Odin also instructed 
four Dvergr to hold up each corner of the sky- which they 
continue to due to this day. The cardinal directions, North, South, 
East, and West, are named for these Dvergar- Northri, Suthr, 
Austhi, and Vestr.

Races: Gnomes

There is a good city, amongst others, where there is dwelling great plenty of 
those little folk, and it is a great city and a fair. And then men be great 
that dwell amongst them...

The Travels of Sir John Mandeville

 Gnomes are thought to be related to mortal dwarves 
in some capacity, though the direct genealogical link has been 
obscured over the ages. Unlike most dwarves, Gnomes prefer 
to live above ground and usually near natural resources they can 
harness for their work. Like dwarves, gnomes possess immense 
skill and the drive to create- so much so that their desire to create 
is the primary driving force in a gnome’s life. Unlike the 
dwarven drive for capital gains and resource holding, gnomes 
value innovation and ingenuity above all else. To them, there is 
far more value in creating something new and innovative- even if 
it is only at a conceptual stage- than in making something 
mundane, even if it is beautiful and well crafted.

 To outsiders, gnomes can sometimes come across a little 
manic. They are either absolutely devoted to their current pet 
project or utterly morose that nothing is interesting enough to 
hold their attention and creativity. Gnomes commonly 
experience bouts of depression throughout their adulthood due 
to the immense pressure they put on themselves to invent or 
create something truly spectacular. The gnomish difficulty in 
regulating between “utterly obsessed” and “completely 
disinterested” makes them slightly intimidating to work with but 
there’s literally no other group in all of Stromgard that can devise 
absolutely ingenious solutions to seemingly unsolvable 
problems.

 Gnomish settlements are easy to spot. Typically, they are 
not well planned out and usually look as though someone tried 
to erect multiple villages on the same plot of ground. For what 
they lack in aesthetic cohesion and carefully planned infrastructure, 
these settlements are often equipped with wildly advanced 
technology like arcane defenses, impenetrable walls, complex 
locking mechanisms, sophisticated resource allocation, even 
things like advanced hygienic customs. It is also common 
knowledge that gnomish workspaces are notoriously dangerous, 
usually mixing reckless construction techniques with the arcane 
and sometimes exacerbated by entirely too much zeal and not 
enough understanding.

 Physically, gnomes are shorter than dwarves, generally 
in the four foot tall range and with a slimmer frame. Gnomes 
are surprisingly dexterous, especially when working with their 
hands and being adept with magic is relatively common- though 
gnomes with arcane inclinations tend to still spend most of their 
time creating and developing new ways to apply it.

 Gnomes have a very small population, due in part to their 
shortish lifespans of about two hundred years and their cultural 
disinterest in raising families. Some gnomes make excellent 
parents that are able to develop ingenious ways to divide their 
attention and time between children and inventing. On the 
whole, however, it can be more challenging. Many gnomish 
children are raised with extended family or relatives in an effort 
to spread child-rearing around as much as possible. The logic of 
this being the time and impact of raising young ones can be 
reduced if the task is spread out amongst relatives and other 
family, therefore turning childcare into a slightly more 
communal effort. Family units in gnomish steadings are huge 
and confusing, with family responsibilities spread across 
children, parents, grandparents, great grandparents, aunts, 
uncles, cousins et al, all working to spread childcare, house-
keeping, and cooking as widely as possible to reduce to the 
impact to any single gnome.

 Ethical sensibilities in gnomes can be quite different from 
the other races and may be a challenge to understand for those 
not acquainted with their ways. To the outsider, gnomes can 
come across as extremely obsessive and even slightly callous. 
They care so much for their studies and research that many 
outsiders consider their intensity to go past poor self control and 
into outright dangerous negligence. Project management on 
bigger endeavors is so poor that casualties are almost certain. In 
the race to improve and complete things, most gnomes pay little 
heed to safety- both in working conditions and in completion. 
They rarely consider whether a dangerous pursuit should be 
attempted, concerned instead only with whether it was feasible 
at all and immediately applying all available resources to it.

 As you may have guessed from the rest of gnomish 
inclinations, they’re not tremendously concerned with gender 
presentation. Like with everything else in gnomish society, 
unless it’s innovative and interesting, they have more engaging 
things to worry about.

 Another unique thing about gnomes is that they’re 
possibly they least pious of all races. Unlike the Jötnar, however, 
they bear no ill will towards the gods. Neither Aesir or Vanir 
deities seem concerned with gnomes and, likewise, gnomes are 
far too interested in their own doings to tend to the spiritual. 
Gnome clerics, paladins, and shamans are a rarity but they have 
happened in the past before, if an individual finds their imagination 
and obsessive impulses held by such notions. Typically, like 
dwarves, gnomes tend to hold Odin in highest regard.

Races: Halflings

...Fattish in the stomach, shortish in the leg. 
A round, jovial face; ears only slightly pointed and ‘elvish’; hair 
short and curling...

J.R.R Tolkein, The Letters of J.R.R Tolkien #27

 Halfling creation myths are lost to time. Even they don’t 
seem to know when or how they came into being. Many people 
believe they are relatives to dwarves and gnomes- mostly due to 
similar heights and stature- but it has recently become a popular 
theory that Halflings are a race of mortal fae, descended from 
the natural spirits to live as mortal beings for a span of about two 
to three hundred years. 

 Halflings are a fully agrarian society and rely on the 
fertile valleys and hills of Stromgard to scrape out a living. They 
are a particular hardy race, well accustomed to the freezing 
winter months and rarely falling prey to diseases that lay waste to 
others. Most halfling villages are densely populated, with public 
buildings like inns, a leader’s long-house, and ale houses 
occupying the center-most area, followed by commerce and craft 
related buildings, further surrounded haphazardly by civilian 
residences. Beyond that, halfling settlements cordon off wide 
pastures for sheep and goats, and even in rougher terrain, 
halflings build tiers into the land for farming and raising 
animals. Halfling villages are invariably quaint and usually not 
tremendously well protected. Because Halflings maintain good 
relationships with practically every race in Stromgard, however, 
attacking one of their villages typically invites the wrath of 
others.

 Like dwarves and gnomes, halflings are a short, stocky 
people. Only about four and a half feet tall on average and 
usually heavy set, Halflings are closer to dwarven stature than 
gnomish. They come in a range of complexions from fair to 
dark and often appear with unique skin markings. Many 
halflings are coated in freckles or possess interesting beauty 
marks. Some halflings are born with a kind of mottling to their 
skin that combines both light and dark skin tones. In halfling 
belief, it is said that these children are destined for to bring great 
joy. Halfling hair tends to be a little on the coarse side, prompting 
curly hair on most of them- from loose waves to tight 
ringlets. Physically, halflings tend to be underestimated by the 
other races but they are fleet and silent, if need be, and have a 
sturdy constitution. By nature, halflings aren’t tremendously 
inclined for bloodsport or battle but there’s no shortage of 
halfling warriors and it is common knowledge that they are well 
suited to the arcane arts.

 Halflings can be found all over Stromgard, whether in 
their own settlements or as part of others’. Halflings believe 
hospitality is a chief virtue in an often cruel world and they 
welcome anyone into their villages without question or 
judgment. Conversely, halflings also highly value the pursuit of 
happiness in any form it might take, and therefore encourage 
curious young halflings to indulge their wanderlust away from 
the relative safety of their home. These two beliefs prompt a lot 
of coming and going in Halfling villages, and has helped them 
find friends and allies all over the world. Even Jötnar are 
unhesitatingly welcomed into halfling towns, plied with drink 
and food and a warm place by someone’s fire to sleep. Naturally, 
there have been occasions where the halflings find themselves 
with a proverbial (and literal) knife in their back for such blind 
kindness but they’re determined to uphold their ways.

 Halfling society is driven by a number of ethical considerations. 
They believe that showing kindness or offering help to 
someone, even someone dangerous, is the surest path to mutual 
understanding. They believe that being upfront and open more 
effectively reaches the root of problems and showing faith in 
someone discourages conflict and fosters the best possible 
outcomes. Halflings are unerringly trusting, even against 
seemingly better judgment and take everyone at their word until 
given concrete reasons not to. It should be emphasized that halflings 
are not stupid. They are fully aware of the risks they take 
in being so forthright in an often unforgiving world but they believe 
that leading by example will help even the gods and Jötnar 
learn peace. Because of these factors, halflings have extremely 
limited patience for oath-breakers, indiscriminate turmoil, and 
anyone who doesn’t appreciate a good ale or a well made cheese.

 Family culture is strong in halfling society, due chiefly to 
their agrarian lifestyle and the need to maintain a healthy 
population that can produce food. Instead of individuals farming/
raising food with personal land or animals, halflings share 
everything to ensure that all members of the community get 
enough to eat. Village leaders help divide the work (from tilling 
and planting to animal husbandry and processing) among the 
group and ensure that all minimum needs are met. With this 
work distribution system in place, many halflings are free to 
pursue other jobs beneficial to the community like foraging, 
fishing, the making of alcohol, cheeses, aged meats, and fairly 
advanced food preservation. With the whole community 
managing work flow and leveraging skill sets, halflings enjoy a 
reasonably comfortable existence, even during harsh winters.

Taking a leaf from their dwarven relatives, halflings seem 
more aware of gender than some of the other races- mostly in 
that they tend to monitor their populations closely and pressure 
is often placed on producing children. Not much in terms of 
labor is seen as innately masculine or feminine, however, and the 
community as a whole is expected to assist in raising young and 
supporting new families. The loose governing of halfling 
settlements falls to their ‘elders’, an abstract term for the typical 
deference shown to the oldest or most powerful druids or 
shamans of any particular village. They offer guidance to the 
village as a whole but do not actually carry total authority over 
anyone. Their wisdom is highly respected, however, and when 
paired with the halfling drive to find peace, their word is close to 
law.

 For any who study halfling culture, their religious 
inclinations are quite unique. While the halflings revere the 
gods- especially Frigg and her son Baldr- they primarily worship 
the ‘carnal innate’. To the uninitiated, this can sound downright 
sinister but it is nothing quite so dark. To halflings, the carnal 
innate refers to natural hungers- for food, for companionship, 
for peace, for coupling, anything at all. Halflings feel that 
sating these desires is sacred, as is helping others sate their own, 
which brings us back to the halfling inclination to feed and 
shelter those who ask. In their society, sharing a meal is a holy 
act, one not treated with pomp and circumstance and solemnity, 
but one that represents the forging of bonds and shared experiences. 
Halflings believe that eating food, sharing it, developing 
special, more indulgent recipes to celebrate occasions is an act of 
worship. Breaking open a special keg of beer is a show of joyful 
piety in halflings.

Races: Humans

What dream is that? quoth Odin,--
I thought to rise ere day-break
To make Valhall ready
For troops of slain;

Skáldskaparmal, Prose Edda

 In many ways, humans are a strange race. Their origin 
story is muddled in myth and a healthy amount of controversy, 
perhaps ironically befitting of the shortest life expectancy of any 
populous race on Midgard. In the best case scenario, humans 
live to be about eighty years old. Some can magically extend 
their life beyond a century but this is rare and typically only 
possible with immense effort. Many things kill humans before 
they can even reach eighty, however, as they are vulnerable to 
many diseases that don’t affect others, are constantly engaged in 
warfare of some kind, and widely believe that the only worthy 
death one can experience is via honorable combat.

 The human creation legend is a convoluted one, with 
many retellings in every corner of Stromgard. The basic tale 
usually follows like this: When Odin and his brothers slew the 
cosmic giant Ymir, they divvied up his body parts to serve as the 
foundation for the Nine Realms on the branches of the tree of 
life. They took the brow of Ymir to make Midgard, originally 
intended to be a fortress instead of the home for mortals. Odin 
and his brothers, Vili and Vé, supposedly descended to view 
their handiwork and discovered a number of trees growing next 
to a river. Up to this point, most of the tales overlap but this is 
where everything diverges. Some maintain that there were only 
two trees, which Odin used to build two humans and bestowed 
the names Askr and Embla to them. Odin and his brothers gave 
them gifts and set them off to be the progenitors of the rest of 
their race, giving them Midgard as a home in the process. The 
dwarves tell a version in which they discovered the grove of trees 
and built the first humans from their wood. At their request, 
Odin, Vili, and Vé granted the constructs life, intelligence, 
movement, and the senses. Notably, elves and halflings actually 
believe that Askr and Embla were fae like creatures, making the 
connection between humans and fae a popular topic of academic 
discussion. Even the main threads of this tale tend to get frayed 
and unclear depending on which region you hear it or even who 
you hear it from.

 Humans have a reputation for being fairly industrious, 
building settlements where they will and carving a living from 
frozen earth and rock. They’re never tremendously permanent, 
however, so human settlements tend to show their immediate 
wealth- and as soon as that wealth is depleted, there’s an exodus. 
They build closely packed communities of stone homes and 
larger wooden structures for their leaders, typically called jarls, 
and for communal events to take place in. Nearly every town 
has some sort of paddock for the keeping of livestock as well as 
patches of cultivated land for farming. Humans are agrarian 
in that at least some of their wealth and economy is based in 
farming. The other major source of human wealth comes from 
conquest and warfare.

 Nearly all human settlements reflect their combat prowess 
in some way or another. A town’s defenses are a good indicator 
of its people’s competency in war- a highly defended town has 
the resources for walls and watches and typically the enemies to 
test them. A town that cannot produce formidable warriors will 
have little gold or iron for militia training. Any town with ready 
access to the sea will prioritize a shipyard and docks- which 
in turn facilitates one sure road to power, glory, and wealth… 
sacking foreign ports. Humans have also become quite talented 
at the forging of weapons and tools if they have the resources, 
though they will typically make use of dwarven supply contracts 
if they can afford it. 

 Unlike most of the other races, humans- at least in 
theory- answer to a ‘high king’, who is the leader of Stromgard’s 
largest port town (also called Stromgard) and by extension its 
largest and most powerful fleet of ships. The high king backs his 
authority with military power and wealth but should enough of 
the holdings in Stromgard decide simultaneously to stop paying 
tributes and openly rebel, even he would not have the power to 
fully cow them.

 Humans are highly variable in appearance, even though 
they are short-lived and susceptible to disease. Ranging on 
average from about five to a little over six feet tall, humans have 
a huge range of stature as well, from gangly and thin to wide set 
and muscular. Skin tones in Stromgard tend to be on the fair 
side, sometimes with freckles, but it isn’t unusual to find darker 
variants with unique features. Many of those who come to 
Stromgard from overseas have a full spectrum of rich complexions, 
from bronze and rosy coppers, to warm browns and shades 
almost as dark as blackwood. Furthermore, as these outdwellers 
mix with Stromgard natives, an even wider array of skin tones 
become more common in given regions. The most common 
hair colors for humans in Stromgard ranges from flaxen to red-
gold, but earthy browns and blacks are still fairly common.

 Humanity carries an extremely uncommon trait of being 
able to produce children with other races, a characteristic shared 
only by the shape-changing Jötnar. Because of this and their 
own careful attention to progeny, humans are the most populous 
race in Stromgard. Their standing is typically positive with most 
other races and they tend to keep their skirmishing limited to 
other humans (though this has not always been the case). 
Humans especially rely on the dwarven weapon economy, 
prizing their finely made armaments and rare metals above 
almost everything else. Humans are also inventive with their 
seafaring endeavors, often consulting gnomish architects and 
arcanists for design advice.

 Human ethics can be confusing as for every generalized 
rule there are multiple exceptions. Broadly speaking, humans 
believe that dying in honorable combat is the highest accolade 
one can achieve. Only the most worthy of human warriors are 
escorted by Valkyries to Odin’s golden mead hall of Valhalla or 
Freya’s army-field of Fólkvangr, sitting at the highest point of 
Yggdrasil in Asgard. Hel, the lady of Helheim and master of 
the lands of the dead, takes the rest. Legends say that humans 
are her favorite of the races because they die quickly and quickly 
make replacements. Humans place great store on personal 
honor and reputation, though pragmatic and self-interested 
types game the system with little effort. Many of these sentiments 
are tossed out in war situations (especially on foreign soil), 
especially the stance against ambushes, which is a favored tactic 
of conquesting Vikings.

 Because of their limited lifespans, procreation and 
progeny are major concerns in human settlements. Every member 
of the community is expected perform their social duties in 
maintaining a sustainable population and there can be complications 
if one does not meet these expectations.

Humans in Stromgard typically live in tightly knit steadings that divide into small family units- 
consisting of the nuclear family, grandparents, and sometimes other relatives. Family 
members share the burden of child rearing and labor, usually attempting to birth children as 
frequently as possible. Tragically, there is a high infant mortality rate for human children 
as the long winters can be unbearably harsh for such helpless creatures, which puts more 
pressure on adult humans to not only try often for pregnancy but to time it so that the 
child avoids a winter within a few months of it being born.

 Unlike most of the other races of Stromgard, humans ascribe many things 
specifically gendered traits. Child care, for instance, is typically thought of as 
women’s work and manual labor is more often believed to be men’s work. Because 
of the very delicate balance between resource management, fragile mortality, 
and population needs, humans can be ardent in their expectation that everyone 
fulfill their designated roles in the community. Disregard for social convention 
doesn’t typically result in open hostility or exile, however. 
Humans are adaptable above all else and prize productivity over 
traditions almost universally, letting those who defy social 
precedent still be valuable members of society instead of outcasted. 
Humans are typically more concerned with progeny and 
population needs to be overly controlling with convention in 
relationships so long as the settlement is in good health. 
Humans usually enter into a legal union with the motivation of 
procreation, asset protection, and establishing or maintaining 
a legacy but will usually have at least one other simultaneous, 
romantic relationship outside of this that is centered around 
intimacy and a deep emotional connection (and is also legally 
recognized, though differently from an opposite-sex spouse). 
More often than not, this is to compensate for the way typical 
Viking unions are products of convenience and social need, with 
little emphasis on emotional fulfillment. As far as humans are 
generally concerned, as long as population needs are maintained 
and balanced, then romance and love are pursuits all are entitled 
to enjoy.

 Because of their creation myth, humans are particularly 
devoted to Odin and Thor, both gods who represent honor and 
strength. Humans also pray to Frigg, the patron goddess of 
mothers and childbirth, and also Freya for fertility and- if you 
are a female warrior- strength and skill on the battlefield. 
Humans have almost as many seasonal celebrations as halflings 
and many believe that it is because they have such a fleeting 
number of seasons to enjoy.

Races: Jötnar

The erne in old days lighted
Where the Æsir meat were bearing
To the fire-pit; the Giant
Of the rocks was called no faint-heart

Skáldskaparmal, Prose Edda

 The Jötnar- or Ice Giants, as they are sometimes called- 
are the oldest race, even among the immortal Vanir and Aesir 
gods. It is said that Ymir, the first being out of whom Odin and 
his brothers created the planar system, was a Jötnar of unfathomable 
size… so large that his corpse was used to make all of the 
lands in which people dwell. In the slaying of Ymir, it was said 
that his children- the first Jötnar as we know them- were swept 
away in the flood of hot blood that rushed from his body and 
spread to the corners of the world. Jötnar learned how to be self 
sufficient and resourceful, raising a growing population highly 
skilled in both martial and arcane arts. 

 The distinction of ‘race’ is not a tremendously useful 
grouping for Jötnar as their physical forms, inclinations, and 
inherit abilities vary immensely based on a number of mitigating 
factors. Jötnar born near the Iron Forest, for instance tend to 
take on the forms of hulking, bipedal wolves, some Jötnar have 
steely blue-gray skin that’s tougher than iron, some radiate cold, 
other radiate heat and breathe fire. There seems to be no size 
limitation for a Jötun’s physical body, only that it seems to take 
them many lifetimes before they’re able to achieve colossal forms. 
Most theorize that the more ancient and powerful an individual 
Jötun is, the more they can flex their physical forms. Unlike 
Aesir and some Vanir, Jötnar reportedly cannot fully change 
their body from one shape into a completely new one. They 
are born with a set number of limbs, for instance (typically two 
arms, two legs, sometimes a tail, and generally only one head) 
but can alter many things about their body at will- such as skin 
and hair color, sex, ability to bear children, and the visibility 
of natural weapons like claws and fangs. Most denizens of 
Stromgard can tell a Jötnar when they see one, however, as the 
aura of ancient otherworldliness that surrounds them is almost 
impossible to conceal.

 Jötnar tend to live in very small groups in extremely 
isolated settings. Their strong belief in self sufficiency and 
survivalist inclinations make them disinclined to start real 
communities where the burdens of life are shared. Typically, a 
Jötun parent lives with their children somewhere the children 
can grow and learn to fend for themselves, at which point the 
Jötun child either sets off on their own, succumbing to their 
innate wanderlust, or repays the parent by caring for them and 
continuing the cycle. Some Jötnar settlements exist, however, 
though they are rare, extremely isolated, and ferociously 
protected. The Iron Forest is home to a sizable clan of Jötnar 
that function like a wolf pack. An ‘alpha’ makes decisions for 
the group and the others form a social hierarchy beneath her, 
supporting her endeavors to feed and protect. Settlements like 
these are usually very wary of outsiders and significant efforts 
will need to be made in order to communicate a desire for peace. 
It also doesn’t hurt to bring a finely made gift, especially a useful 
one, if you wish to enter a Jötnar village and leave intact.

 The physical make-up of a Jötun, as previously mentioned, 
is widely variable. It took the humans of Dennar nearly 
four years to figure out that marauding werewolf attacks were 
actually just Jötnar with particularly vicious natural forms. The 
Titan of Nottrn Lake was thought to be a earthbound Aesir 
for ages until someone slew it and it was discovered that it was 
Jötnar of immense age. While Jötnar ancestry is easy to spot in 
more mundane forms, once the Jötnar sort of surpass typically 
humanoid sizes and shapes into monstrous, their origins seem to 
be a bit harder to pin down. The most fascinating aspect of 
Jötnar physiology, however, is their ability to bear children 
regardless of apparent gender. While studying Jötnar bodies is 
difficult due in equal parts to their standoffish nature and their 
inherent distrust of others, common belief holds that Jötnar are 
not equipped to carry offspring until they actively will themselves 
to, which raises many fascinating questions without 
concrete answers.

 For as much as Jötnar typically dislike meshing into 
social hierarchies and for as much as they resist the gods’ every 
attempt to control them, it is universally accepted that Jötnar 
are somehow extremely appealing to nearly every group- mortal 
or immortal- in all the realms. Despite the conflicts between 
the Vanir, Aesir, and Jötnar, it is impossible to miss the fact that 
countless gods have taken Jötnar spouses. Loki, Skadi, and 
Gerðr are all of mostly Jötun blood, and even Odin himself is 
descendant of Jötnar. Mortal races usually find them desirable 
as well, even if they reportedly make for intense but brief trysts. 
Many Jötnar do not hold to the stereotypes, however, and find 
they make well-suited parents of typically healthy children. 
They can be vivacious, devoted spouses who viciously protect 
those they care for, even in the face of insurmountable odds. It 
bears repeating that Jötnar value freedom and independence 
above all things but that their desire to bear young and couple 
with a well-suited partner doesn’t necessarily interfere with this.
While technically Jötunheim is another plane of existence, 
it surrounds Midgard like an enormous ring and traveling 
between the two is relatively simple- as simple as merely stepping 
over the border which has lead to fairly widespread exposure 
to Jötnar from the Midgardian side. Most races of Midgard 
deal with Jötnar on a irregular and infrequent basis but you can 
usually find pockets of them, living in isolation where they can. 
Some Jötnar have adapted to city life, finding entertainment and 
satisfying work among a denser population.

 Most of the time, however, Jötnar culture and sensibilities 
make it a little hard for them to assimilate into other cultures. 
For one, their independent natures typically mandate a degree 
of individualism that doesn’t work well in communities where 
everyone is expected to fulfill certain social roles. The Jötnar 
prioritization of the individual over the community can rub 
many the wrong way and often gets reduced to abrasive 
stereotypes. Furthermore, and a much larger obstacle for many, 
is that the Jötnar yearning for independence and strong aversion 
to participating in social hierarchies that do not place them at 
the top has led to the ardent and long-standing believe that the 
Jötnar are either planning to or are currently (in some form) 
violently resisting the control of the gods. As you can imagine, 
this can be quite a hurdle to overcome with more pious peoples, 
especially Alfir and to a lesser extent mortal elves.

 Jötnar can also experience troubles from other races due 
in part to their lack of defined sex. Jötnar are born with bodies 
that are less easily divided into binary genders and without a sex 
that’s easily discernible at a glance, non-Jötnar can find making 
assumptions a stressful situation. Furthermore, the concept of 
gender in Jötnar society is quite weak and since any Jötnar can 
will themselves the ability to produce children at any time, their 
understanding of other cultures' sex and gender is also quite 
shaky. Additionally, Jötnar can also successfully copulate with 
any other race- which is probably a factor in their almost 
universal appeal as partners. Interestingly enough, this a trait 
that only humans share.

 Somewhat scandalously, the Jötnar do not worship any of 
the gods and loudly proclaim that they are equal to the 
Asgardians. The Jötnar worship their own strength and their 
place in the cyclical nature of the world. To the Jötnar, forging 
your own path, protecting your loved ones, clashing with a 
powerful rival, and freely pursuing happiness and contentment 
are their holy rites. Jötnar are usually, by nature it seems, very 
distrustful of any attempts to ‘organize’ this creed into a 
centralized temple or the like and typically do not produce many 
individuals willing to spread their ways through peaceful 
missionary work. Their resistance to the rule and powers of the 
Aesir and Vanir gods has given rise to many unseemly stereotypes 
and generalizations that make it hard for them to have 
peaceful relationships without great effort. Most Midgardians 
believe that the Jötnar are power hungry anarchists simply 
biding their time until they can launch an assault on the gods. 
Others believe they incite the gods intentionally to rain 
misery and misfortune down on everyone. It isn’t uncommon 
for natural disasters, diseases, and other catastrophes to be 
blamed on Jötnar impiety. Any signs of impending Ragnarök 
and most people immediately blame Jötnar for starting it on 
purpose. It can be a difficult existence, especially for Jötnar who 
travel to other realms and intermingle with other societies.
