Society

Long while this branch of Odin’s stem
Was the stout prop of Norway’s realm

Ynglinga Saga, Prose Edda

 Stromgard is home to a few distinct societies- humans, 
mortal elves, and dwarves are the largest populations of the 
realm but there are also a number of large halfling and gnome 
settlements. 

Economy

 One factor that shapes all of these people, however, is 
resource availability in Stromgard and how that molds the 
economy. By and large, pure metal alloys are difficult to obtain 
in Stromgard. Dwarves have the most advanced smithing and 
metal working techniques available and their powerful ruling 
families live or die by their ability to keep gold, silver, and iron 
flowing to craftsmen, who in turn supply the other races with 
tools and weapons.

 Most of Stromgard is poor and a little isolated, as small 
hamlets, villages, and towns rely on agrarian methods to sustain the 
population during the long and harsh winters. Humans (and sometimes 
other races) also supplement their wealth by zealously raiding lands to 
the south during the summer months, bringing back slaves, ore, 
weapons, and other treasures. The typical human in Stromgard 
would have an easier time sailing south to win a blade from a 
fallen enemy than save the scraps of their valuables to trade for a 
well made dwarven axe.

Power

 The importance humans (the most populous of 
Stromgard’s races, easily) place on conquest and raiding gave 
rise to the notion that whoever has the best fleet of ships, the 
best sailors, and the best warriors will subsequently gain and 
maintain the most wealth. Which is how Stromgard became a 
kingdom with its own High King. In reality, the High King of 
Stromgard is simply the richest person in a collection of small 
villages and towns. Sure, the king has a formidable personal 
militia but most people feel that razing a few acres of farmland 
with it is a waste, especially when you could simply send fewer 
men out on boats and have them come back with endless heaps 
of gold and jewels. Because of a lack of cohesion among the 
human settlements of Stromgard and the current High King’s 
disinterest in cultivating absolute deference, he simply leverages 
his wealth to build roads and bridges, mans them with watches 
and collect taxes once a year. The human villages enforce this 
amongst each other, holding each other accountable for their 
share of the ‘public works’. The High King passes the occasional 
decree but without real backing from the populous, his reach is 
not watertight. Conversely, should any single settlement prove 
themselves to be to much of a hindrance, that private militia 
starts to seem a little more useful. 

 The other races have their own methods for governing 
themselves and they typically treat the position of Stromgard’s 
High King with more respect than it probably deserves, though 
this is in an effort for all leaders to come across as equals. At a 
high-level viewpoint, the major populations of the realm enjoy a 
relatively peaceful existence. At least in their own relationships, 
this, of course, does not factor in ever rising tensions with the 
Jötnar, monsters, or angry gods, etc.

Honor

 The forge of hard work, self sufficiency, and slowly 
burgeoning civilization has instilled the people of Stromgard 
with a highly prized culture of honorable conduct. This 
sentiment, at least on the whole and in generalities, is shared by 
people of all mortal races. In Stromgard, there are very black 
and white ways to solve problems. Attacking someone from 
behind is always a dishonorable move, attacking someone at 
night is also typically considered dishonest. The people of 
Stromgard value those who are forthright with their grievances 
and who speak plainly about them. They also value leaders who 
meet their charges at the same level, who are willing to stand on 
the battlefield with their men, or face whatever threat they meet 
head on. People who run away from a fight- even one with the 
high likelihood of a terrible outcome- are usually considered 
cowards and someone unwilling to speak their mind, craven.

 This very prominent, yet loose code of ethics has 
given rise to two interesting concepts that those wandering 
Stromgard may find themselves confronted with. Firstly, the 
law of holmgang has the potential to be quite harsh, depending 
on where it is invoked. To call a holmgang, an aggrieved party 
makes a public accusation against the person who has wronged 

them and challenge them to a one-to-one duel. Most of the 
time, this duel is fought to incapacitation, though there are 
many places where killing your opponent is the goal. Typically, 
a crowd will come out to watch- along with at least one skald to 
officiate- and the winner of the duel is considered the righteous 
person who was telling the truth all along. To lose a holmgang 
can have serious repercussions, especially as they sometimes end 
in death. Some holmgang losers are socially shunned by any 
who hear of the event and others may be straight up murdered 
by an angry mob if the result was controversial or run out of 
town.

 The other strange concept one might encounter in 
Stromgard is a little less easily defined. The concept of ergi is 
old, even in Stromgard. It should be noted that only human 
and dwarves abide by the concept in any capacity. Elves have 
never used it and ascribe an entirely different meaning to the 
word and it means very little to halflings and gnomes. Historically, 
the word ergi was used to describe male practitioners of 
certain magicks, where rumor held that one must take on the 
‘sexually-receptive’ role in certain coupling rituals in order to 
gain their power. Obviously, the word started to get hurled all 
over the place to ridicule men who were effeminate or took male 
lovers, or even who just didn’t fit in well. The biggest scandal, 
however, is that the god Loki declared Odin was ergi after his 
encounter with the Norn at the well of knowledge. In so many 
words, Odin told him to piss off and no gods since have 
questioned it. Mortals followed suit of course, and only the 
most backwater, uncultured coward would sling it around these 
days with the intent of stigmatizing someone.

 The dwarven use of the word ergi does not carry the 
context of ridicule. They do believe that some magics (partic
ularly oracular powers) are gained via sex rituals. To them, ergi 
simply means someone who has gained those powers and they 
only understand the wider context of the word thanks to human 
interactions. In polite dwarven society, the word has stopped 
being used almost altogether.

Language and Literacy

 The races of Stromgard each have their own unique 
language and sometimes sub-languages or dialects as the culture 
divides geographically. A foreigner, for instance, doesn’t learn 
how to speak “Dwarvish” they learn how to speak one of four 
distinct dialects and struggle when communicating with the 
other three. Dvergar also have their own language but as it is 
the root of the Dwarven languages, they can communicate with 
relative clarity to each of the dialects and learning the Dvergar 
language has been the most pragmatic approach for academics or 
intellectuals looking to speak to many kinds of dwarves.

 There are separate dialects throughout Elvish and the 
common human tongue as well. Halflings have a different, 
robust accent for nearly every separate village they inhabit and 
they’re quite fond of guessing the homeland of others based on 
inflection. Humans have a huge variety of accents, dialects, and 
colloquialisms that can be very difficult to keep up with for the 
longer-lived races. Many raiders come back with foreign slang- 
especially obscenities- that they learned in far flung ports. An 
Elvish saying is that if you wish to insult someone, consult a 
human first.

 Written languages in Stromgard are abundant, though 
they are typically “broader-stroked” and more idea-based then 
phonetically rooted. Jötnar, however, do not have a written 
language. Instead they leverage their immortality and ancient 
knowledge to pass information along orally, making each 
member of their albeit disconnected society a relative 
treasure trove of information and lore. The Dwarven language is 
the only one designed to be written with brushes in lieu of stamps or 
chisels. Sprung from their centralized and powerful economy, 
Dwarves have a high need for writing and record keeping, 
prompting them to further push the efficiency of carved or 
painted sticks, bark, and various (albeit rough) 
paper-making technique.

 The most common written language is the runic 
system, which was developed by human skalds ages ago to 
assist in recording the names and deeds of kings more 
accurately and permanently. There are two sets of runes in 
Stromgard, one of which represents abstract ideas via rough 
pictograms with very few compound ideas. The other is a 
phonetic set of runes, which are used in sequence to sound out 
other words. As you can imagine, the pictograms have a much 
higher information density than the runic phonetics but most 
literate peoples must make use of both to communicate complex 
ideas.
