The Arcane

The sun turns black , earth sinks in the sea,
The hot stars down from heaven are whirled

Völuspá, Poetic Edda

 The arcane fabric of Stromgard, Midgard, and even the 
entirety of Yggdrasil has been a topic of intense study since time 
immemorial. There are countless wizards and mages of all 
disciplines studying nearly unlimited schools of magic and more 
collected knowledge on the subject to fill the grandest libraries 
known to man. And still, the mysteries and innermost workings 
have hardly been scratched. New magicks are invented everyday 
and it only takes someone reckless and dangerously clever to pull 
off such a feat.

 There are two major ‘wells’ one may tap in to the cosmic 
forces of ‘magic’ from. The first is divine magic. Divine magic 
is what powers clerics and paladins, and relies upon receiving 
power from a deity or other cosmic force in exchange for 
devotion and service, typically.

 ‘Natural’ magic is the tapping into and shaping of wild 
natural forces that govern the Nine Realms. This can 
exceedingly dangerous. As the laws of nature can differ in 
different realms, extraplanar visitors of magical persuasion can 
sometimes be met with unexpected spell results that can turn 
deadly in an instant. The most mundane magic- worked by 
medicinepeople and hedgewitches- is quite subtle and can work 
without any obvious manifestation. Powerful mages can pull 
demonic fire directly from Muspelheim before your very eyes 
but, thankfully, power at this scale is rare.
There is a less classifiable third major school of magic 
involving prophesy and Seeing. The magic of fate-reading and 
foresight is usually considered to be a divine gift, though some 
anomalies exist. True prophecy and wyrd-reading are considered 
to be extremely rare and valuable gifts. People typically treat the 
art of foretelling to be a gravely serious act that can be 
immeasurably valuable and an immense burden. Seiðr are the 
most powerful of seers, and must drink from a well of 
knowledge- guarded by the Norns- to gain their incredible 
powers. The type of fate read by a Seiðr is called a wyrd. In 
Stromgard, all words have power and to speak them is to create 
and in that, make real (sometimes symbolically, sometimes 
literally). A wyrd is just that, a fate given form. Interpreting 
a wyrd can be difficult, sometimes impossible, but a wyrd is a 
great treasure, even if it brings great suffering.

 Not only can a seer read the wyrd of a person, but a 
place’s wyrd can also be read, spelling the fate of all. Ragnarök is 
known by many names but it signifies one thing above anything 
else- a cataclysm so bloody and chaotic that the world itself 
will die. Many seers have foretold different events supposedly 
destined to take place during the apocalypse. Winter will rage 
on for years, a great battle will rend the land, the gods will be 
murdered, even mighty Odin is seemingly destined to die in the 
jaws of Fenrir. This will bring untold devastation in the form 
of floods and storms, until the world is sunk. Ragnarök is also 
said to represent a cycle and that ultimately, the world would be 
reborn again. Though what this means for mortals is unknown.
