Warfare

God of the blade of battle,
We bear through Hákon’s life-days
The Seed of Fýri’s valley
On our arms, where sits the falcon.

Skáldskaparmal, Prose Edda

Arms & Armor

 Across the vast majority of Stromgard, most martial 
weapons take the form of roughly hewn axes with heavy, solid 
heads on sturdy oaken hafts. Swords, especially shiny, high-
quality ones are usually only seen on people of import or wealth 
as they are typically too expensive for an undecorated warrior. A 
full breastplate or plate pauldrons is generally cause for everyone 
to stop what they’re doing and gape openly in most of the 
realm. Well-made battle axes and chain shirts can still be too 
expensive for a rural warrior or young fighter looking to cut their 
teeth, which makes hardened and shaped leather or belted tunics 
the go-to option of choice. The vast majority of inexperienced 
warriors outfit themselves with spears- either heavy and long for 
close combat or short and light for hurling incredible distances. 

 Warriors who regularly take to the sea to conquest other 
lands tend to favor foreign armaments as a kind of extremely 
functional war-trophy. Unusually shaped halberds, curved 
swords, and piece-mail fetch exorbitant amounts of money back 
in Stromgard or make handsome heirlooms.

Conquest

 For most groups in Stromgard, war and conflict are an 
unavoidable part of life. Humans and Jötnar tend to the be the 
most heavily involved in violence as they are some of the few 
races that will war with their own people at comparatively little 
provocation. Humans in particular are gifted tacticians, 
capable of defying tactical convention to overpower much larger 
and better equipped forces. While humans will die of old age 
much faster than the other groups, anyone can lose their life on 
the edge of an axe and this typically plays to the human’s favor. 
They are usually of fairly high constitution and their desire for 
short term victories and earthly pleasures makes them a 
dangerous opponent. Few warriors can match the sheer 
recklessness and unrelenting determination humans possess 
during wartimes. While certainly not the strongest or most 
durable force in Stromgard, a human contingent is enough cause 
for caution and the reluctance to engage directly with human 
forces has grown strong in recent generations.

 This reluctance to clash has, if anything, only prompted 
humans to find conflict elsewhere. The human High King of 
Stromgard possesses a huge fleet (consisting of hundreds of ships 
and even a retinue of Stormcallers) by which he maintains his 
authority among his people and even among some of the other 
mortal races as well. War in Stromgard rarely reaches the a scale 
that would require such a fleet and so humans have taken the 
battle elsewhere. After the winter ice floes melt, conquest season 
officially begins.

 Established and refined by humans, conquest is a bloody 
endeavor that yields great rewards for those interested in fame, 
glory, and wealth. Each village sends their strongest warriors in 

small, lightweight ships that hold between ten and over a 
hundred sailors. Many of these explorers- who take on the title 
of Viking while they are away- leave for several months at a time, 
sailing south to known ports and easy targets beyond Stromgard, 
while the bravest, most well-equipped parties sail even further to 
places unknown. The priorities for these trips typically follow 
a somewhat predictable order- Firstly, sack the living hell out 
of an unprotected civilian port, target their places of worship 
(they’re full of gold, after all), grab anything of value, cut down 
any who stand in the way. Then, conscript or enslave anyone 
strong enough to make up for Vikings lost in the skirmish, load 
up the boats, repeat until cargo capacity is maximized, then 
return to Stromgard.

 The kingdoms that are a few days to a week or two south 
of Stromgard are prime targets. There are several large settlements 
dotting a series of islands with no unified force and hardly 
any warriors to even scrape a ragtag militia together. More than 
any other ports in the known world, these islands are continuously 
raided every year as marauders ransack churches and 
hamlets like wolves descending on fat, unprotected livestock. 
For those of a more adventurous spirit or eyes on bigger 
prizes, many brave raiders sail out to the edges of the known 
world itself, bringing back exotic weapons, coins, and even 
spices. Though beyond the easy island targets, there’s no telling 
what kind of defenses or organized military forces await reckless 
raiders who press in without a thought.

 Slaving is an abhorrent practice that has found a foothold 
in conquesting. Vikings (both historically and in Stromgard) 
typically forced raid survivors- if they were strong enough to 
survive at sea, anyway- to function as replacement sailors for any 
warriors lost during conflicts. These conscripted sailors were 

treated well enough to keep them healthy, for the most part, but 
their main function- to the Vikings- was forced labor and little 
else. Upon returning, these conscripted were contracted to more 
forced labor, usually as farm hands for a predetermined number 
of years. Once the contract was completed, the "conscript" 
was given all the same rights as native-born citizens. During 
their period of forced labor, conscripted were- at the very minimum- 
protected by some rights. The right to defend themselves 
from bodily harm and carry weapons, notably, as well as the 
widespread understanding that altering a conscription contract, 
once set, was considered dishonorable enough in some parts to 
warrant bloody retaliation from the whole village. But all of 
this does not erase the traumatic and dehumanizing experience 
conscripts routinely faced. Even once freed, these people were 
still in a mostly foreign, far off land with no real concept of how 
to return home. Many simply made new lives where they 
ended up, for lack of feasible alternatives... some go on to join 
other conquesting Vikings in the hopes of reaching their homeland 
someday. 

 Humans are the only race that actively take part in open 
and unabashed slavery in this way. Elves and most of the smallfolk 
races vocally revile the practice. Dwarves are ardent opponents 
and will not take part in conquest raids with human crews 
that partake in conscription (though very unflattering comparisons 
are sometimes uttered about the ruthless dwarven metal 
economy and the unerring need for dangerous manual labor). 
Suprisingly enough, it is the Jötnar who most viciously oppose 
conscription, even going so far as to sabotage raids occasionally.

 Conquest is a bloody tradition and takes a violent name, 
but thankfully not all of its outcomes end in bloodshed. Many 
sail south to make peaceful contact with new ports and peoples, 

opening up trade routes, bringing all sorts of commodities and 
skilled (voluntary) labor back with them. Peaceful talks can 
still be dangerous to those unskilled at working through foreign 
language and customs, however, and even if the port itself is safe 
enough, there’s no telling what kind of ocean-dwelling monsters 
could make life difficult. 

Tactics

 Viking raids are extraordinarily successful for a few 
reasons, not the least of which is the simple fact that the 
fighters from Stromgard are strong and relentless. Firstly, ships 
built in Stromgard are long and lean, streamlined to cut through 
the water and nimbly pivot around rocks or ice with minimal 
effort. Most important of all, however, is their lightweight 
design. In Stromgard, a guiding design principle is that a ship 
must be light enough for its crew to carry across land, which 
makes it easy for warriors to travel huge distances inland via 
small waterways that their victims don't anticipate. 

 Unlike warfare and bloodshed in Stromgard, ‘dishonorable’ 
tactics like ambush and backstabbing carry far less stigma 
during a raid. These are, in fact, the most common tactics to 
employ when sacking- travel far inland at night, bring the ships 
ashore, and attack the settlement itself while its occupants sleep. 
During raids, it is also common to focus on the most vulnerable 
first targets first, rather than facing a well defended vault or a 
contingent of armed soldiers before setting a monastery on fire.

 Another tactic heavily favored by pillaging raiders is 
playing into the rumors and stories their survivors tell, building 
up the panic and disorganization when they land. Warriors 
regularly go into battle naked, drunk, howling at the moon, and 
some even set flame to their weapons in the effort of creating 
mass hysteria and anarchy during the first few critical moments 
of open conflict, undermining the chance for resistance to 
organize.

 On open seas, sailors from Stromgard usually have the 
advantage as well. Longships are made to be fast and during 
an assault from either the land or sea, most helmsmen have 
the boats quickly lashed together in a kind of makeshift flotilla 
under the idea that the sailors will be able to quickly respond to 
defensive needs while relatively few can concentrate on piloting 
the ships.

 Arcane technology has also added immeasurable benefits 
to those sailing from Stromgard. For sailors and raiders, there 
is no single asset more valuable than a Stormcaller. These mages 
can speed travel a thousand times over and are devastating 
in a skirmish. They are usually fringe dwellers, however, and 
many have found difficulty in keeping them satisfied during 
contracted voyages. The second most valuable thing a ship can 
be equipped with is a sunstone, a gold colored, cut and refined 
gem that emits a fine beam of light that points in the direction 
of the sun no matter the weather conditions or other visibility 
impairments. There is no more precise navigation tool widely 
available. While these gems are fairly easy to obtain (dwarves 
typically have ready access to the raw materials), they do come at 
a price line that is quite steep to those looking to purchase their 
first ship and tend to be the resource that restricts ship ownership 
the most.

Shipyards

 The shipyards of Stromgard produce a few basic types of 
ships, though most helmsmen- especially veteran raiders who go 
out to conquest every spring- will typically add modifications 
or unique features to set themselves apart from the rest and also 
to accommodate the goals of their excursions as much as possible. 
Dexterity and cargo capacity were the two most important 
features that defined a ship's purpose. Rowers, with lightweight, 
pinewood oars, could cut through the surf like an arrow, while 
sturdy sails could travel obscene distances. For each feasible 
function, the Vikings could construct a ship tailored to that 
exact need. 

Faering - A small vessel with oars for 2-4 people and room for a 
few more. These are cheap and light and many travel 
surprisingly long distances in them.

Knarr - A long distance ship, heavier and more rugged. These 
are designed to travel huge distances mostly by sail, but can hold 
around 30 sailors and move via auxiliary oars if need be.

Nydam - A longship designed for speed and dexterity. These 
ships hold between 15-20 people and can sail in water less than 
3ft deep.

Karve - A heavy ship designed to transport cargo but that was 
still light enough to coast in extremely shallow conditions. Not 
hugely nimble but can haul a huge amount.

Additional Moves regarding warfare:

Pillage

When you wish to sack a foreign port and command a number of 
Vikings, issue your orders and roll +CHA. On a 10+ your 
warriors are well organized and gain a huge advantage surprising 
the settlement. There no major casualties and you obtain what 
you were aiming for. On a 7-9, your fighters are too eager and 
green. They lose the ability to fully catch the settlement unaware 
by being too noisy and slow in the approach. They meet 
the resistance head on and you suffer some casualties. The loot 
you obtained only a lesser version of what you wanted. On a 
miss, the assault was a disaster. The settlement had defenses 
you weren’t prepared for, your warriors succumbed to chaos and 
broke formation and the chaos hindered them as much as it 
scared the townspeople. You suffer heavy losses and come away 
from the ordeal empty handed.

Ally

When you wish to extend the hand of peace in a foreign port and 
command a number of Vikings, issue your orders and roll +CHA. 
On a 10+, someone in your crew is able to passably communicate 
with the locals, who are a little nervous but curious about 
your people and your ways. You have good luck in securing 
talks with local authority and your sailors- as long as they are 
well behaved- are welcomed and permitted to trade for goods. 
On a 7-9, the locals do not trust you and you find them incredibly 
difficult to communicate with. They are only tolerating your 
presence and could easily be tipped into open hostility if your 
sailors overstay their welcome. With a show of good faith, you 
will be able to slowly build rapport with them but a misstep will 
set you back. On a miss, the port is immediately hostile to you, 
having heard stories of barbarian raiders from the north already. 
They do everything in their power to drive you off before you 
can even land.
